overall in this film about to search about something
Amazing performance by the ensemble. 
Horrifying as it is based on true events!
Spotlight is a movie that I didn't think I would want to watch more than once because of it's subject matter but I can't help myself with Tom McCarthy's masterpiece. It does what The Post should have done, it keeps the integrity of the story and keeps you locked in for the full 2hr run time. The brilliant ensemble cast doesn't try to out do one another but rather leans on the material and lets the story speak for itself.
9.5/10, well acted and riveting
Spotlight was ok, but devoid of any tension, ambiguity, depth, complexity. We all know the story---the reality---that 90 priests molested and/or had inappropriate sexual interactions with teen and preteens, and that the Catholic Church in Boston and elsewhere covered it up. But this take on that story is about how a principled Jewish editor in chief (played by an apparently bored Liev Schreiber) arrives at the Boston Globe and is the only one who can see injustice and responsible journalism with any clarity, and how it was his moral backbone and intellectual prowess that enabled taking down the Catholic Church when none had dared or been able to do so before--and how many had resisted and/or actively fought against the real story to come out. The acting is uniformly good--it should be; it's a stellar cast--but the whole thing is turned down so low, so drably, so one dimensionally, it is very hard to keep watching and listening to the same lectures over and over (and over and over) for over 2 hours.  There needed to be a reality check--or a devil's advocate--or some other POV beyond the obvious one that is hammered without deviation from the following: molesting children is evil, Catholic priests molested children, the Catholic Church is all over the world, therefore unspeakable evils have unfolded to unfathomable numbers of kids worldwide thanks to the Catholic Church, which must be stopped--and thank goodness for the 100% good, brave, intellectually clean and clear "outsiders" who step forward valiantly to put a stop to evils like Catholicism. Little shortcuts like "Gasp!!! Lawyers who approached the Catholic Church with allegations of abuse for many years did not officially file lawsuits in court?!! Nor did they go to the media?!!! There are nondisclosure agreements with the people who settled with the church---egad!!" Doesn't take into account that 90% of lawsuits against corporations, organizations, universities, and individuals are treated precisely that way. Is it to "cover up what happened," as a conspiracy?  Not necessarily---that is the way that legal action often/usually unfolds--out of court settlements, "mediation," arbitration. And almost always as part of those settlements is a non-disclosure agreement.  It is not unusual--the way this film makes it out to be--that the Catholic Church did something bizarrely untoward each time they were approached with a claim, for their attorneys to work with the plaintiff's attorneys and not to go to the media with it. Not to say the Catholic Church handled--or handles---such things appropriately. But many times in Spotlight actions like the preceding example of settling out of court is conflated with corruption, nefariousness, conspiracy. The Church may be and have been corrupt and nefarious--and even perpetuated conspiracy--but why not climb a bit farther inside it and show how the very people thinking they were doing the right thing were completely wrong-minded about it? THAT in itself is far more arresting and affecting than watching a painfully out of tune children's choir warbe "Silent Night" in a shadowy church, watched over by a priest, while Mark Ruffalo stands in the unwatched darkness, a single tear dribbling down his cheek. Heavy-handed and unnuanced missed opportunity. For an exponentially more effective film on this topic, see "Doubt." That will haunt you. Spotlight, in contrast, will most likely sort of bore you (which you'll then have to deny since it's such a dire topic).
Thrilling! One of my favorite movie of all time.
Spotlight takes on the task its subjects brought to life the decade prior with grace pose and a rawness that is gripping and emotionally moving.
Good solid writing, acting, directing, and the film took you into newsrooms and you meet reporters that are becoming too few in this country.
Absolutely brilliant from start to finish.
A story everyone should watch, one of the most important films of the decade.
Taking the #1 spot in the list for my favorite films of the decade, this Best Picture winning film shines a light on the extraordinary investigative journalists who revealed one of the most disturbing true secrets that the church had been hiding for many years.

The pinnacle of Investigative Journalist filmmaking

SYNOPSIS:
In 2001, the investigative journalist team, known as "Spotlight", for the Boston Globe gets tasked with digging deep into a potential scandal of the American Church keeping secrets and hiding child molesting priests. Though at first believed to be just a couple "bad apples", the further the team researched, the more they begin to realize that this unimaginable secret is actually being done on a much grander scale.

DIRECTION:
Tom McCarthy really knocks this one out of the park. Every angle is a song and every angle is keeping the right amount of pace while tracking every bit of body language coming off of the phenomenal performances. I've been reviewing many films that aren't asked for an extreme amount of effort on behalf of the directing and I'm compelled to say the same about this film. Despite feeling this way, McCarthy shoots this film in a very particular way where it's hard for me to explain. He is always capturing the right frame at the right moment and whether it's a wide, a medium or a close-up it is particular to a point of perfection. I couldn't imagine the editing nor the direction being any different. I don't want it to be any different. The extreme organization of this film is exquisite and regardless if you're familiar with the true story you're still very much discovering every bit of information along with them. Although I can think of several films of the sort, the only other film I can really compare the meticulous direction with is that of David Fincher's "Zodiac" (2007). 

WRITING:
Every element of this film is damn near flawless for me and the same goes for the writing. As I mentioned in my review of Dark Waters (an also similar film including Mark Ruffalo), when writing a script that is inspired or completely based on true events, you can spot the films that truly do their research. Now, I don't know just how accurate this film is to all of the dialogue that was actually said nor do I know what level of investigation these journalists took on, but anyone can see that this film really dug as deep as it could. A story like this could be scary to tell, especially when it's dealing with an enormous entity like the American Church and so I give the writing and anyone participating in this film in general all of the props in the world.

ACTING:
I'm just going to name all of the noteworthy actors: Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liv Schreiber, Brian D'Arcy James, John Slattery, Billy Crudup, Stanley Tucci and Mark Ruffalo. Now there are others who played very small roles who were all spectacular, but for this film I really want to narrow this SPECTACULAR lineup to Stanley Tucci and Mark Ruffalo. Stanley Tucci plays one of the most incredible supporting roles to date. He was so integral to the story and every line of dialogue that came out of his mouth felt so true that I nearly forgot he is an actor and I know that's the job and that's how it's supposed to be, but in every scene that he was in I nearly felt I was watching a straight documentary with the real lawyer. He was unbelievable. Moving on we get to Mark Ruffalo. Without having seen all of his films, I can say without a doubt this is the best performance he has every given. It's one of the greatest performances given period. One could argue the best of the decade. Maybe this story is so close to his heart or maybe he just sparked unreal-like empathy, but I felt as though this story affected him to his very core. The emotion was so raw that the whole movie I wanted this story to get out just so I could see himself get closure. I wouldn't be surprised at all that even though Mr. Hulk has smashed through several Marvel films that this was his most emotionally and mentally draining performance he's every had.

CONCLUSION:
All in all, this film goes down as possibly one of my top 10 favorite films of all time. To take a story, entirely filled with dialogue and to keep my interest as much as a Domino's Chocolate Lava Cake, is speaking to significant heights. I can watch this film daily and still be sucked in just as much as the first viewing and the heart wrenching scene between Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo. Simply Impeccable. This is a recommend to absolutely everyone. I am a man of faith and for me to still enjoy this film as much as it does, I believe speak volumes.
Powerful and absolutely perfect storytelling. You won't forget the final 40 minutes of Spotlight.
One of the best true story-telling movies.
Mark Ruffalo shows why he's a mediocre actor at best 
An important film...it treads its difficult subject matter with respect and dignity.
The best newsroom procedural i have ever seen. These people set aside their personal lives to report a story that changed the world. Stopped evil in the name of good. The way they portrayed the new Jewish editor from Florida was so understated. So real. What a great movie!
This movie is just mindblowing for me, not just the story but the performance from the casts too, Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Stanley Tucci played a big part that makes this movie so meaningful for me. And don't forget there's Brian d'Arcy, Liev Schreiber, and John Slattery that has a scene that steal the show for me, their role maybe not that big but believe me, every one of them is just so good in this movie. A must see film with amazing performance from everyone since The Departed. 5/5
What they did with the story was close to brilliant. Although there was not too much happening on screen, they managed to create a dense and believable atmosphere.
A story worth watching! Great!
good cast and a great story based on real life story in Boston about the Catholic church
Following in the footsteps of other journalistic drama greats like "All The President's Men" and "The Insider" before it, this Best Picture winner takes an incredibly engrossing story of investigative passion and layers a thick coating of moral intrigue and subtle, yet effective emotionality on top of it. Sure, "Spotlight" may lack the directorial panache and flair that other, admittedly more complete films would possess, but I'll be damned if the subject matter at hand doesn't elevate everything in play. I don't need this to be flashy or expressive. The message and story at hand do it all for me. And what a story it is, scripted beautifully by Josh Singer and director Tom McCarthy, featuring stellar dialogue, brilliantly vibrant scene dynamics, and -- again -- a call to action that'll knock you on your back. "Spotlight" shocked me in nearly every way imaginable. Not only is it a well-deserved candidate for the best movie of 2015, it's a well-deserved candidate for being one of the best movies of its kind.
Great casting though I think that McAdams could've done a better job 
Really well done. Amazing so many people would look the other way. 
As I've watched an ever-increasing number of films across a variety of genres, I've come to the conclusion that the investigative drama is one of my favorite genres. My favorite movies in this genre are those which are simultaneously low key and suspenseful. Films such as The Third Murder, Rear Window, and The Conversation maintain high levels of tension with a minimum of onscreen violence, achieving the type of audience engagement I'd associate with a high body count thriller with a more measured, intellectual tone. Spotlight is, undoubtedly, one of the best films of the genre I've ever seen. Following the titular "Spotlight" team from The Boston Globe as they investigate what could be the biggest story of their career, a child abuse scandal involving the Catholic Church, the film is extremely tense, yet simultaneously low key, creating an extremely engaging drama without sacrificing the air of authenticity demanded by an adaptation of a true story.

The movie features one of the strongest ensemble casts I have ever seen, to the point that pointing out standouts is very hard because of the inspired performances all around. In a clever bit of directing, these characters are frequently towered over by edifices symbolizing the very organization the team is investigating as they exchange dialogue. This dialogue is engaging not just because of the acting prowess on display, but also because movie also has an excellent script. I particularly like the use of subtext and doublespeak in the film. While the film does not convey as many layers of meaning in a single sentence as Tokyo Story, which I have praised for similar reasons, it acknowledges that it is often counterproductive for a reporter to get accusatory and openly angry with interviewees and that, for the person on the other end of the notepad, threats should not be made openly and publicly, especially towards someone in the position to publish those threats. These are aspects of the profession commonly ignored by films featuring reporters.

I suspect some people will find the film to be anti-religious. I didn't get that impression. Spotlight certainly does not portray the Catholic Church as an institution in a positive manner, but it does not attack its God directly, only the mortals ostensibly in God's service. Throughout the film, the "Spotlight" team conduct repeated telephone interviews with a former Catholic priest who became a critic of the Church due to their handling of sexual abuse claims. He has little positive to say about the people running the church, but still considers himself a Catholic. Even if we assume the existence of an infallible god, humans, those who claim to be servants of that deity may still commit immoral actions, and those acts should not be excused because the evildoer is a priest. Spotlight takes no definite stance on religion, only on those who use it to conceal their own evil acts.

This movie was flat, boring, and seemed just clinical and surgical in the way it dealt with such a tragic and controversial topic. I can't believe such a careless and boring snooze-fest won best picture. 
An Academy Award winner for Best Picture and an excellent film that gives one a good idea of the code of silence and the vastness of the problem of sexual abuse of children by priests on a scale most of us could never imagine. Any respect I had for the Catholic Church  and its hierarchy is gone, leaving in its place nothing but disgust that the Church protected such horrendous monsters, not as any forgiveness due to sinners who preyed on the most vulnerable that the Church should have protected at all costs, but to salve it's own pride--one of the 7 Deadly Sins! What overwhelming hypocrisy, the worst a religious group could ever commit! because it preyed on children and ruined all of their young lives in the very worst criminal way! There is no excuse and never could be!
Very good movie, try to detail the facts but in some cases make excessive use of the resource of put crying people in the screen but in general is a spectacular movie.
Spotlight is one of the most important films of my lifetime. The story is so significant, and Spotlight honors it in a near-perfect way.
The most beloved films about journalists, All the President's Men (1976) and Cry Freedom (1987) portray them almost like action heroes as they intelligently interrogate shadowy figures whilst bonding with their partner or righteously campaign for the civil rights of a racially oppressed group. Spotlight avoids all of this portraying it's heroes as able and worthy in their jobs as they face a difficult task but they always feel very grounded and big, teary-eyed speeches about "integrity" and "truth" are never brought out to sell the idea that journalism is important, we already understand. Although I didn't love the film it tells a story about an important subject matter with grace and intelligence not seen in many ï¿ 1/2 1/2 1/2~based on a true story' Best Picture winners.

The ï¿ 1/2 1/2 1/2~Spotlight' team work at the Boston Herald on big exposes as they spend months, sometimes years on single stories as they compile irrefutable evidence to back up their claims. The enemy that they face this time is the Catholic Church as they block them at every turn in their attempt to access sealed information about covered up child abuse within the Boston diocese. Walter Robinson, Michael Keaton, Michael Rezendes, Mark Ruffalo, Sacha Pfeiffer and Rachel McAdams band together in their intrepid investigation of the case and discover just how deep the corruption goes whilst collecting heartrending testimonies from victims.

The most affecting moments in the film are of course the confessions from the mostly adult victims of sexual abuse as they describe how they and those around them were manipulated into beginning sexual relationships with priests. The attempts that they made to have these dangerous figures removed from positions of power failed as the system is set up to prevent their stories from getting out. The victims are played well by unknown actors as the emotions are clear upon their faces but there are no dramatic outbursts or sudden revelations that cause them to cry out in pain and terror. No, we get hard, simple truths about the endless terrors of child sexual abuse as we witness that one prominent victim had at some point fallen victim to a cocaine habit. This has more emotional resonance than any scene from The Accused (1988) where Jodie Foster cries out due to her trauma. These characters stay with us and it is their pain that motivates both the journalists and the audience in revealing this abuse to the public and dethroning these villainous abusers.

The reporting is also seen to come not from eureka moments or a natural talent for composing alliterative sentences but from honest work. We see journalists plugging away at all hours, doing the dull work of filling in spreadsheets and writing comprehensive notes during long interviews. We also get dramatic scenes of Keaton confronting his close high school friend who may be closely connected to the cover up but these are brief and have extra impact when considering that this sort of conduct does not occur often. Seeing these people work away at all hours like a respectable, normal human being endears these characters to us and makes their victory all the more deserved as we have seen the work that he have put into it.

The performances of Stanley Tucci and Billy Crudup in supporting roles as a cantankerous but honorable lawyer and a slick but also surprisingly well-meaning lawyer respectively are standouts. The entire cast is solid and their understated, workmanlike performances fit the tone of the film as a whole as if Glenn Close had been cast in McAdams' role, although she is brilliant, she wouldn't have jelled with the rest of the film. 

The only criticisms that I would have of the film is that it didn't ever convince me that it was more than just very good. Holding the Best Picture distinction meant that I had high expectations for the film and I never felt as though this was one of the greatest films of the decade or even the year. The cinematography also doesn't help as the film has a washed out color palette and the scenery never looks particularly special. I just wanted more in many places and I didn't get it therefore I can't call it a perfect film but it's definitely the best of the films nominated for Best Picture in 2015.
Spotlight is a movie about a team inside The Boston Globe, called Spotlight. They investigate stories and work confidential. When a new editor start the work for the Globe, Spotlight is made to investigate the Geoghan case, which is about a priest that molested children. Once Spotlight starts working on the case they find out about more and more priests who did the same thing.

I was blown away by how great the actors were. Mark Ruffelo and Liev Schreiber stood out for me. They really became Mike Rezendes (Mark's character) and Marty Baron (Liev's character) which I find very fascinating. The way they talk, the way their faces move, it's truly amazing. Michael Keaton as Walter Robinson aka Robby is so good as well (what's new). I feel like all the roles Rachel McAdams plays are kind of the same (she played Sacha Pfeiffer in this one), but she was as marvelous as ever. It wasn't only the main character though. Even the actors with smaller roles were so good. I really enjoyed the acting in Spotlight, which obviously makes the movie even better.

I'm so happy this move got oscars because it really deserves it. The movie is a biography and I love watching films like these because most of the time I didn't even know about the story. As I said before, the actors where great, it's an interesting story and I highly enjoyed it.
Watched Spotlight. Wonderful film. The acting was incredible and I loved everyones performance, and it didn't unrealistically embellish anything. Really down to earth. My one gripe is that in its attempts to be realistic it was almost TOO realistic. I dont think there was even one light hearted moment or a second of laughter in the film. In reality, people do laugh or stutter or trip or get awkward for a second or something. Believe me, the actors are so realistic and consumed by their roles unlike anything I've ever seen. However I'm a guy who needs a little stimulation; the monotony made me a tad drowsy. One moment of explicit comedy or humanness would've gone a long way. Nonetheless, the ending scene absolved almost everything. You realize you've watched the tedious-but-epic quest that exposed a scandal we all know so much about. And, of course, you get that classic theme of good decisively triumphing over evil and feel good walking away from it. 

I love how Mark Ruffalo is so weird with his facial expressions but still has such a normal conversation style. I also like that he kinda has this Type A constantly-worried face that makes him seem like a jerk but still all he cares about is doing the right thing. I could chill with him for a bit, but I feel like I would just be making that face the whole time too because he would just be constantly ranting about something he's frustrated with. Like just knowing that right now Mark Ruffalo is out there worrying about something is stressing me out.
One of the most rewarding slow burners of the past century. Spotlight heavily utilizes its real life story to perfection, as it addressed the reveal of a shocking secret kept under wrap for years. Tom McCarthy did a phenomenal job directing the picture, orchestrating a conclusion we've been anxiously waiting for. The performances were also terrific, just like its Oscar-worthy screenplay. Its a very human movie that everyone could get to know about and see. It deserves its critical acclaim and this 5 star rating.
What a crackling film about the incredible work investigative journalists do. very powerful 
Make you concious of the reality which happens around us.
Spotlight is carried by an excellent representation of the not so distant past, skilled acting by its leads, and pure outrage.
A very sad but rue film important for all to see and amazingly impactful
Spotlight, the real life based drama that take over the world on the 2015, interesting from the beginning to the end, at the end of the movie you either feel indignation or fully accomplished with the main characters.

One of the strongest parts of this film is the performance of the actors, we have some top talented actors like Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton, but this movie gave us more. I would like to divide the actors and their performances in 3 categories, because they are so different from each other; the first category are the main characters, the ones who wants to find out the truth, they make you believe that they are making the work of their lives to just for the sake of justice, the second group are the victims, the damaged, even before they told you they story you can tell how damaged they are by her personalities and how they act; the last group are the bad people, the ones who either caused damage or wanted to cover it, you can tell they are covering something from the first time you see them interact with the main characters, they are so hateful. 

The soundtrack is almost if it wasnï¿ 1/2 1/2(TM)t there, but it isnï¿ 1/2 1/2(TM)t necessarily something bad, the whole movie has a really serious mood, its necessary for the plot to make it the more realistic as possible, that includes the ambientation, all the 2nd and 3rd act its based on its majority on an office, everything is grey, boring, how it is supposed to be in the real world, itï¿ 1/2 1/2(TM)s a good ambientation because it really reflects what it was like on the real world.  

My only concern with this movie, its at the end of the 2nd act, at that point, we area so full of characters and side stories that it becomes really hard to keep it up with the whole plot for 2 hours, I feeled the need to constantly rewinding it back to remind me who they were talking about or what specific situation they were referring to.
One of the best films of the last two decades. Truly engrossing and Dean's with it's themes appropriately.
No 2015 movie left me more choked up or rapt with admiration than Tom McCarthy's ode to old-school investigative reporting. Kudos to the year's best acting ensemble: Michael Keaton, Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery and Brian d'Arcy James. At The Boston Globe in 2002, the Spotlight team nailed the Catholic Church for its legacy of child abuse and cover-ups. And the movie sets a new gold standard for 21st-century cinema about journalism. This star studded cast created such suspension and intrigue throughout this wildly entertaining film that I just did not want it to end. It is no surprise this film is a serious Oscar contender. 
Ã-nemli bir konuyu iÅleyen bir film
Derin bir konusu var
A movie based on a true story that tells the truth story about pedophilia by hands of priests of Catholic Church on the city of Boston. With a group of reporters who investigated this case for later being public to the people. Great acting, great adapted screenplay and just wow, this film is very strong in all aspects. This movie earned the Best Picture on the Oscars.
Filme perfeito contando a histÃ³ria real.
It is a phenomenal movie. The movie was able to give justice to the story of the reporters who were behind the Pulitzer winner report that put light on the molestation of children by the hands of the priest and high dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Churches. Superb acting!!!?
Riveting and superbly acted and directed. Amazing cast. Celebrates the work of investigational journalism. One of the best movies in many years
thorough, good acting, but too dialoguey and a bit dry. it was hard to get a grasp of the multitude of characters that kept popping in and out. but perhaps that’s an accurate show of the journalism world
Spotlight is so tightly written, tightly edited, tightly acted - like, not only is it subtle but TIGHT AF.

Read full review: jane-han.com/blog/2018/2/16/film-review-spotlight-2015
Informative and compelling at times, yet hardly deserving of the two Academy Awards it garnered; SPOTLIGHT seats Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo [Hulk] at the helm, to pragmatically delineate the investigative reporting that exposed Bostonâ(TM)s Catholic Archdiocese Sex Abuse Scandal. Itâ(TM)s no more or less than what anyone would expect, with a few inquisitive surprises to keep the ball rolling. The film is worth seeing once for its academic dramatization value, but thatâ(TM)s about it.
Very important. Everyone should see this.
I was a lucky man because i saw this movie using boxxy software just after it was released
Many films have an engrossing story but fall prey to using tricks or gimmicks to force a point or emotion, Spotlight is a strong example of just letting the story do the talking
We have progressed far enough now that we can easily look back at the turn of the millennium with a sense of wonder, reflection and some fear. The clock had barely clicked over into a new century when we found ourselves in a state of panic and paranoia; first Y2K, then a Presidential election that we couldn't resolve, then the horror of 9/11, then accidents, disasters, war, terrorism, scandals, emergencies and through it all the country suddenly found itself unsure what to make of itself anymore. It all seemed too much for such a short time. It seemed that the atonement for lot of old sins were finally being demanded.

Few bombshells hit quite as hard as the one that went off on the morning of January 6, 2002 when The Boston Globe began running a series of a stories about the permissiveness of The Catholic Church when several priests were accused of systematically molesting young boys. The Globe revealed that such a thing was hidden by The Church whose response was to quietly transfer the guilty to other parishes. There were deals with victims, legal statutes, and worst of all, local Catholics so fearful of taking on the church that they were willing to keep quiet about it. Within less than a year, Cardinal Bernard Law, the Archbishop of Boston resigned a disgrace - yet that didn't stop Pope John Paul II from giving him a position in Rome. One man in the film puts it bluntly: "The Church thinks in centuries."

Spotlight is not about abuse, nor is it about the machinations of the priests themselves - what they did was horrible enough. The movie is an intelligent examination of the investigation to break down the ancient walls that kept the story from becoming front page news. There are no priests seen in this movie and what they did is mercifully not seen in flashback. We hear about their actions through the words of the victims, about how such abuse breaks not only self-esteem but also breaks one down spiritually. We hear very clearly that some of those who were abused found solace with the needle, or the bottle. They were lucky because the rest resorted to suicide. These stories bring an urgency to the investigation.

The horrible stories come from the words of the victims, but we the viewer are kept out of the walls of the church. Spotlight is instead an exhilarating old-fashioned newspaper movie in the mold of All the President's Men, Zodiac and Absence of Malice that follows a team of Boston Globe journalists called Spotlight as they begin to dig under the allegations that some seem determined to keep under wraps. The editor of The Spotlight Team is Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) who oversees a team of three reporters; fair-minded Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams); work-a-holic Michael Rendez (Mark Ruffalo); and combative Matty Caroll (Brian d'Arcy James). All four of these reporters are Boston locals, all are Catholics, but all admit that they have fallen away from the church. When the paper gets a new editor, a soft-spoken Jewish Floridian named Marty Baron (Live Schreiber), he begins to question why the story isn't being followed up. Why did the Globe receive information on these priests and then bury it in the Metro section? Why were those stories not followed up?

The movie follows their investigation as they begin with the case of John J. Geoghan, who is alleged to have molested many children over a long period of time. But that case opens another case and then another and then another until the case of one man has become the case of many men who committed an atrocity and then were protected by The Church. What did those in power know? What do those in power know? How many were there? How far back does it go?  How high up does it go?

We feel the David and Goliath struggle here but director Thomas McCarthy doesn't force anything, yet keeps the story at a breathtaking pace. He lets the information be the star as we become so engrossed in their investigation that we wait for the moment when something will break. The tension here is at the level of a great thriller, especially when the story's forward momentum is interrupted by a certain national event that delayed The Globe's progress by for four months. Plus, watching these reporters hitting the streets, questioning witnesses, tussling with lawyers over documents, and flipping through file cabinets we are aware that their kind of journalistic leg work is soon to end. Long form journalism still exists but not at this level at a time when true journalism has to fight for space with the superficiality that is sweeping it right into the dustbins of history. To watch Spotlight is to watch history in action, not just in busting open the long-delayed stories of molestation in the Catholic Church, but in the manner in which it is done. This is one of the best, and most important, films of the year.
Loved it! Important film that brought to light to a wider audience the abuse crisis' details and exposure. Good acting also.
Filmone! Come già avrò scritto, amo questo genere di film basati su fatti realmente accaduti, perché insegnano anche qualcosa di effettivamente accaduto che prima invece non conoscevi. Racconta del caso di alcuni giornalisti e redattori che portano alla luce il marciume e la corruzione all'interno della chiesa. Il cast è spettacolare, quello delle grandi occasioni; tutti bravissimi, in particolare Keaton, Ruffalo e la McAdams. Essendo scritto come Dio comanda, il film non annoia neanche per un momento, anche grazie al fatto che ci si immerge sempre di più nella storia, quasi come se si lavorasse con quei giornalisti. Girato benissimo da Tom McCarthy, ha vinto l'Oscar al miglior film e penso che la cosa sia meritatissima. Da vedere, bellissimo.
This was an incredibly well made and well acted movie about the horrifying true story of  child  abuse in the Catholic Church. The movie did an incredible job  showing the Boston Globe's efforts in handling the story the right way. One of the best dramas/bio-pics  I've seen in a long time
What a film this is, essentially 90% of the plot boils down to journalists having meetings and doing research yet it's so well put together you're completely gripped from the first frame.  Everything in this film works, the performance across the board are excellent, the direction, the soundtrack, all perfect.  Actors you've seen in other films and never even left a mark all get it pitch perfect here.  I haven't seen another McCarthy film but I'll rectify that because this is first class film-making it really is.  The story is sickening and heartbreaking in equal measure, no-one gets out of this film without being examined thoroughly, it's a triumph.
2018-11-17 I can't believe that it actually happened which is disgusting. Great movie that I would like to watch it again. However, I don't really understand the relationship between a lawsuit and press.
A very important story, however I feel like the movie relies too much on hoping that the audience will be invested because of the real life story. The film overall doesn’t do enough to take it to the next level... 
Delicately made and intriguing.
¿Casos de pederastia al interior de la iglesia católica? Nada más actual y estremecedor, y en esta cinta, basada en una investigación real de un connotado periódico bostoniano, develan una realidad nada favorecedora para una de las instituciones religiosas más importantes del mundo.
fascinating story presented in a genius way
Well acted but little dramatic interest.
I cant even imagine how hard it is to create a movie revolving around this topic without beening condescending and somehow they did it. Spotlight is gray and realistic depiction of jurnalist work, that was created in such a way that it keeps you captiveted from beggining to the very end.
What? They can still tell a decent story in a good old fashioned way? I thought all movies today have at least 4 superheroes and go "crash, boom, bang"!
This movie touches very sensitive problem. Very well directed, without irrational plot twists, seems like basing on facts only, without unnecessary additives. Calm but keeping in suspense in the same time. I don't know if it's enough for Academy Award but it's worth to see very good performance of Liev Schrieber and Mark Rufallo. When Schrieber has a supporting role, Rufallo's play is something incredible - the way he talks, the way he moves - it's great when you completely forget about the actor and you see only the character he plays.
A stellar cast at the top of there game in a exceptional film based on true events. Not a easy topic to cover but handled brilliantly by the writer and directed to perfection  by tom mccarthy. True stories seem to be getting more popular with Hollywood now but if there as good as this, please keep them coming
Really nice film. Eye opening story. Really arranged well and Mark just played it nicely. Well done
A truly impactful film that highlights the true, unbelievable story of the Catholic church. It's hard to review this as a piece of entertainment but each of the actors are fantastic and the story is told in a respectful and entertaining manor.
Incredible, moving story. Mediocre film direction; a slew of poor choices supported by intriguing content to hide it. Atrocious performance by Mark Ruffalo, worthy of a Razzie. There are enough onscreen detractors that this is not worth a Best Picture as it is Best Screenplay. Truly, Spotlight needed a spotlight, and this film is it. Regardless of the filmmaking quality, I am happy to see this story told, serving as further protection to the many unheard victims.
No wonder this movie won the Academy award for Best Picture, this film is fascinating. The fact that it's based on a true shocking story makes the film even more authentic and captivating, without forgetting great acting from the whole cast, especially Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams. It's a daring piece of work, and the build-up to discovering and publishing the true cases of pedophilia by Catholic priests is the most interesting part. It's an overall dramatic historical movie and one of the best I've seen for sure. Recommended !!
Tight, fast paced story telling and the best cast performance of the year; Spotlight tells the story of the investigative team at the Boston Globe and how they pulled the wool off and exposed one of the most egregious and gruesome conspiracies ever perpetrated. Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber were standouts. Both played roles that were against type, and made choices that absolutely paid off. I was most impressed with director Thomas McCarthy never using a specific priest or member of the clergy to carry the weight of antagonist, but rather playing off the idea that all of society was responsible by either not believing what they were being told, or just not wanting to believe it. The journalists who are investigating this story aren't made out to be heroes either. The movie played out exactly as I expect it probably played out in real life. It was that subtle unease and realism that chilled my bones and made a lasting impression.
Religion is, and always has been, the problem. The cancer of the world.
No doubt it is the masterpiece of McCarthy's career. I will wait anxiously for his new vision of a world quite deteriorated by human mediocrity, reported in facts without leaving it vague, in addition to including a dramaturgy arranged in an impeccable script.
One of the best dramas, not just of the year, but of all time. A masterpiece.
Spotlight's cast brings life to wooden characters, though the film's true triumph is its solid subtlety.
Just wow. Captivating. Disturbing. Enlightening!
The obvious parallel is All the President's Men, and both films do a great job of building momentum. Once it gets going, it's like a snowball rolling downhill. You really need to pay attention to each scene to figure out who has uncovered what about whom. This isn't quite as gripping as ATPM, but it's very well made. Stanley Tucci stands out for me among the supporting cast. He's such a good actor. It tells an important story, and one that as a Catholic I am certainly disturbed by. It's not the most emotionally moving film, but it's well made and deserved its Best Picture Oscar.
Spotlight is one of the best movies of ever made about journalism. It's realistic, greedy, it makes you feel exactly what it's like to be a journalist. The acting in spotlight is all top-notch. Oscar worthy performance all around. The story is interesting and the dialogue is top notch. The movie is a slow burn for the most part which make a few scenes drag on but otherwise it's a great film and well worth watching.
In an era when free press is society's favorite punching bag, Spotlight becomes a required watching for those who are either completely clueless or have completely lost faith on journalists and their role as rigorous and uncompromised purveyors of truth, despite the difficult consequences.
The sheer amount of detail and research is staggering!

Spotlight (2015) is primarily a piece about investigative journalism that shines because it does not over-sensationalize the journalistic process or the people that write the news. Spotlight focuses on the hard facts and the means by which the news acquires these studies, stories, and profiles. The Spotlight team did a tremendous service to society, and the film Spotlight is a brilliant and engaging testament to excellence in journalism.

Tom McCarthy's film is a crescendo of information, scandal, cover-up, and intrigue into the world of Catholic priests molesting and raping young children. Spotlight puts the investigative team and the priest's victims on the forefront of the fight as well as the lawyers that bravely fought the good fight while no one believed them. The sheer volume of evidence, detail, and research that went into these investigations, cases, and the film Spotlight is staggering to say the least. I was very impressed by the director's sleek presentation, but more so the massive amount of care that went into Spotlight. Spotlight will engage, entertain, and horrify you increasingly as the film goes on, but it is well worth watching.

I have to hand it to whoever cast Spotlight. This film is crammed full of brilliant actors giving it their all. Michael Keaton is phenomenal as the head of Spotlight, trying to find the truth and reckoning with his past. Rachel McAdams is incredible and captivating interviewing numerous victims and their powerful testimonies. Mark Ruffalo is impressive for his Bostonian accent and tireless persistent portrayal of a journalist that had to interview sources and unseal documentation of the cover-up. Lastly, Stanley Tucci is sympathetic and endearing as a lawyer that worked ceaselessly to represent and defend the young victims of these pedophile priests, while he simultaneously worked to unseal the documents that broke the Spotlight story with hard evidence and accounts. I really enjoyed the cast of Spotlight all delivering substantial and subtle performances for Spotlight.

In short, Spotlight very well may be one of the most important and impactful films ever made as we constantly hear about more scandals and pedophiles coming from and within The Catholic Church.
Spotlight provides a modern take on the typical story behind investigative reporters uncovering a large, unsettling scandal with it's matter-of-fact screenplay and powerhouse cast that lends itself to a more genuine experience. However, with that in mind, this approach unfortunately can leave the viewer apathetic to what emotional moments it has. Not only that, but it's slow, methodical pace can prove to be a challenge for some viewers to get through. Nonetheless, it does put a spotlight (see what I did there) on a largely ignored issue of the Catholic Church and its often toxic relationship with its community to hide its faults.
The subject matter is revolting but the way it is exposed by reporters at the Boston Globe newspaper is excellent.
The investigative journalism of the "Spotlight" reporters of the Globe in revealing sordid child abuse amongst some members of the Roman Catholic Church reminded me of All The President's Men in the expose of Watergate.
Michael Keaton is undergoing somewhat of a career renaissance from his superhero Batman days of the late 1980s here as chief Spotlight reporter Walter "Robby" Robinson however it is co-star Mark Ruffalo as hot-headed reporter Mark Rezendes who displays the best scenes in arguments about publishing findings immediately before the full extent of the scandal in Boston is investigated.
The film is not a witch hunt against honest members of the Roman Catholic Church it has other elements to the story. Most notably the "turn the other way" attitudes of people in decades gone buy who could have exposed what was going on many years before.
What I do find interesting about these true stories is the cards left on screen at the end. A sort of what happened next.
A film that has to be viewed so hopefully this sort of thing never happens again and no organisation can cover it up.
Reviewed 2.23.18. Spotlight does the near impossible. It takes the dreadful true story of an epidemic of child molesting priests (it's still hard to fathom) and turns it into a procedural high wire act. Investigative journalism isn't flashy stuff, but the script is genius, slowly folding the page into an origami masterpiece.

There are a lot of moving parts, which leaves less time to fully develop each character, and their personal motivation. But enough gets across, and with no doubt about who we're routing for, the stage is set. 

A dogged group of journalists did their job and exposed an organization previously unkowed over 2000 years of abuses. Finally David's stone hit its mark. If 'the first duty of society is justice,' Spotlight serves us all well.
"Spotlight" details the people, methods, and investigative processes surrounding a newspaper's desire to expose, detail, and reveal the molestation of children by Catholic priests in the Boston, MA area in the 1970s. The value of the film demonstrates the procedures and policies that true investigative reporters will follow in order to find facts that can be revealed in order to assure accuracy that cannot be mitigated. It's hard work, classifying, categorizing, detailing, fact-checking, and memorizing real-time and historical information just to write an exposé that overcomes "just-to-sell newspapers" column. A film well worth viewing.
Brings an intense sublime felling of the massive scale of this atrocity. Extremely well directed, shot, and acted.
A solid effort to portray a sombre story.
Great film. enjoyed it. Good pace throughout with great cast and performances. Rated it a 4.
Spotlight tells the true story of what has happened in the Church and does a great job of it. Everybody gives a great performance and this film kept me interested. I have heard a bit of these situation but I don't know a hole lot about so it was nice to learn about it. My only complaints was that at times the movie did get a little slow and could have been a little shorter. Other the that this was a fantastic film that I would watch again.

9.0/10
Gripping film, with some very good performances involved. A topic I knew very little about which made it even more watchable.
Wonderful story telling and a beautiful example of strong journalism. Reminiscent of All The President's Men.
Spotlight handles its sensitive real-life material with prestige and respect, succeeding as a suitably well-told and certainly superbly acted drama.
Oscar movies these days don't win me over like the other candidates. Bird man should have one best picture. I felt bored except when Rachel mcadams was on. She was the bomb.
Overall an exciting story to uncover the truth. In terms of entertainment value, it would not be as exciting as an imaginary story (hence its 3.5 rating) but it has high artistic value given it is a real story.
An authentic portrayal of investigative journalists facing internal and external obstacles. Engaging and thought-provoking.
Didn't watch a trailer, didn't read a review, and just watched it without knowing what to expect. It totally grabbed my attention, intrigued me, lead me on, and charmed the fuck out of me with its brilliance.
Puntaje Original: 6.5

Excelente guión, excelentes actuaciones que encarnan heroicos personajes. Spotlight nos ofrece una película sumamente reflexiva. Estructuralmente impecable, espectacular en todo sentido.Aunque cuenta con un final muy predecible y nada impactante en realidad, Spotlight es algo que vale la pena ver.
Plodding, dull, and for such a charged topic, pretty boring. This tale of the saintly press vs a deviant is so predictable it will surprise you how unimaginative it is; true story or not. 

Ruffalo goes totally overboard with his 'performance' while McAdams is too mousey. This picture basically falters because it gives the impression that Boston as a whole and the Catholic-Irish make up of the place generally, do not really exist and are merely extras in this film about the prowess of journalism. The world outside the newspaper's office seemed to act as non-factor/veneer for the movie's most important people, our stars, the aforementioned press. Thus this factor was so strong, the film ends up feeling segregated. The handful of journos and their lair comprise the film, and when they fain to venture out into Massachusetts, it remains about them, not the everyday Bostonians that they encounter, whose existence is the reason for the story in the first place. 

The people of Boston were kept too far from the screen.
One of the most boring movies I have ever tried to watch, I lasted about 30 minutes sorry.,
An excellent, bleak look at the happens leading up to the exposure of the Catholic churches in the early 2000's. Very tastefully done, but also very dark. Truly phenomenal performances from Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton.
Horrifying subject. Worse because it's a true story. 
Good acting. Well made.
A group of tenacious journalists uncover a vast Catholic conspiracy to diddle alter boys.
Very interesting to see the investigation (or lack of one) that went into uncovering the Catholic Church scandal. The narrative is a bit dry at times, but the cast and the nature of the plot give the movie an inquisitive drive that is very engaging.
McCarthy's direction is spot on and tastefully executed, doing tremendous justice to not only the story itself, but to everyone involved which, I'm sure, was no easy feat when dealing with such a sensitive subject. Intriguing, powerful and fantastically cast, 'Spotlight' absolutely deserves all of the accolades it has received.
GREG: (Greg Smith, Founder of Agile Writers of Richmond, VA) Scott, it s time to shine a little light on our latest review.

SCOTT: (Dr. Scott Allison, Professor of Psychology, University of Richmond) I pray that we get this review right, Greg. Let s recap.

GREG: It s the year 2001 in Boston and the Boston Globe has a new editor. Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) has just read an article about how the Boston Archbishop Cardinal Law was accused of protecting a priest who was sexually abusing children. He directs Robby Robertson (Michael Keaton) to take his crack investigative team, Spotlight, and dig deeper and see how far the accusations go.

SCOTT: One member of the Spotlight team, Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), is assigned the task of interviewing Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci), an attorney who represents a number of victims of priest molestations. Garabedian leaks information to Rezendes that the extent of the abuse scandal is far greater than it appears. The team shows resourcefulness in uncovering the names of 87 priests whose crimes were covered up by the church.

GREG: Scott, Spotlight is a great story of team problem solving. At first the Spotlight team believes they are trying to uncover a coverup of a single priest gone bad, they soon discover there are as many as 87 pedophile priests in the Boston archdiocese. As Robertson and his team work to learn as much as they can, they are thwarted at every turn by Bostonians who don t want the secret out. It seems everyone wants to believe they live in a good town, and to let the truth out would make Boston look very bad. It s Nationalism at the city level.

SCOTT: Spotlight is a movie cut from the same cloth as The Big Short. Both these movies expose the corruptive elements of our society and how leadership (if you can call it that) often turns a blind eye to malfeasance. For me, Spotlight works better than Big Short. In Spotlight, we enjoy nice continuity in following one team of heroes throughout the story whereas Big Short presents a scattered approach that is dissatisfying. We discuss the team as an important unit of heroic protagonist in our latest book, Reel Heroes & Villains. Spotlight showcases the workings of a heroic team in wonderful detail. The heroes in this story are what we call catalyst heroes. They don t transform themselves as a result of their journey (which is typical of the hero s journey). Instead, catalyst heroes transform society. We ve encountered catalytic heroes in other movies we ve reviewed, such as Martin Luther King, Jr., in Selma. These Boston Globe journalists truly do shake things up in the Catholic Church, right some terrible wrongs, and better society as a result. One could also argue that these heroes occupy a category of heroes called protectors. These are heroes who look out for the underdog. They help and protect the weak, the disadvantaged, and those who cannot protect themselves. So we have a team of catalytic protector heroes who do what needs to be done to correct injustices, protect others, and reform a corrupt system. In a sense, they are a team of superheroes.

GREG: You re right, Scott. I call such movies  cause  films because they expose some cause the filmmakers think the public should know about. Often they resemble documentaries because the cause becomes more important than the story. Spotlight overcomes this problem to a very large degree because it focuses on the people in the story. Not only the victims, but on the reporters and how the revelations affect them personally. You mention that the main characters don t transform. But I did see a transformation in Robby Robertson. The pedophile story had been brought to his attention years earlier but he buried it in the Metro section of the paper. He overcame his guilt and shame to lead his team to a compelling story and discovery of a nationwide conspiracy within the church to hide widespread sexual abuse within the Catholic church. When I look for mentors, I look for a character who gives guidance and support to the heroes. Marty Baron, the new editor of the Boston Globe, performs this role. He lays down the  call to adventure  when he challenges Robby Robertson and his team to investigate Cardinal Law. Robertson first  refuses the call  - because nobody challenges the church. But Baron persists and pushes the Spotlight team to dig ever deeper.

SCOTT: Good call about Marty Baron, Greg. This movie drives home the important point that it often takes exotic outsiders to effect change in people and in organizations. Baron is a Jew in a city dominated by Catholics. He s also new in town, having moved to Boston from Florida. He couldn t be more different from the status quo, and as such he brings fresh perspectives that challenge standard practices. The hero s journey in classic mythology is rife with examples of exotic creatures from far away lands who magically appear before the hero to help him or her resolve whatever conflict the hero faces. Yoda from Star Wars is a striking modern example. Baron represents the mentor who arrives on the scene, unsought by the Spotlight team and perhaps even unwelcome. Yet his impact is unmistakable and positive, as they grow to discover. Another type of mentor is the one who is actively sought out by the hero. During their investigation, the team seeks the guidance of a researcher in Baltimore who enlightens the team about the huge extent of the problem. Again, it is an outsider who helps the heroic team accomplish its mission. One last point. As we ve seen in other movies, Greg, heroes must often overcome the influence of dark mentors. There is an older male character named Pete Conley (Paul Guilfoyle) who represents the church and whose job is to fix problems for the church such as this one. He counsels Robby, or rather tries to counsel Robby, to ignore the problem because the city needs the church, etc. Robby will not drop the case and the dark mentoring attempt fails.

GREG: Spotlight is a surprisingly good  cause  movie - mainly because it focuses on the impact the story has on the principle characters. I was also impressed that such a star-studded ensemble cast shared the  spotlight  so well. Although, the personal lives of each character got little attention, so characterization was a bit thin. But I was entertained while I was educated, which is the goal of such a cause film, afterall. I give Spotlight 4 out of 5 Reels. The main character in this story is Robby Robertson and he has a mild transformation. But it is the city of Boston that undergoes the transformation due to the efforts of the ensemble cast. This makes them a sort of  catalytic  team hero which I give 3 Heroes to. The secondary characters also take on mentorship roles. There s the dark mentor Conley that Scott mentioned. As well as the newcomer Marty Baron who can see things with eyes. Their mentorship isn t as profound as it might have been. I give them just 3 out of 5 Cast Points. Movie: Cast:  Hero:

SCOTT: I think you pretty much nailed it, Greg. Spotlight shines a light on the dark workings of a religious organization that participated in a shameful cover-up of countless unspeakable crimes. This film is effective in portraying how a team of journalists finds its moral core so that it can shed light on a church that has lost its moral core. The acting, the pacing, and the storytelling are all exemplary. I also award this film 4 Reels out of 5. The team of heroes at the Boston Globe are fun to watch as they unravel the mystery confronting them. They bring about transformative change to their community and to the Catholic church, and they deliver justice to hundreds of victims whose tragic stories never saw the light of day. Watching these heroes do their heroic work was gratifying. I give them 4 Heroes out of 5. The supporting cast was strong and provided exactly what our team of heroes needed to do their job (or to make their heroic job harder). The work here is more than perfunctory but not quite exemplary. A rating of 3 out of 5 cast points seems reasonable here.  Movie: Cast:  Hero:
It has a tight, close-knit focus on its story and themes complimented by an excellent build-up and serious character performances. The style is barren though, with no real creativity to its cinema beyond moments of suggestive photography and maybe a a good sequence or two.
Well written, well produced, well acted historical movie.
Expected this this to be kind dull but I was drawn in the whole time. Great movie.
Respectful look into abuse in authority with good performances from the cast. Not All The President's Men but a worthy effort.
heavy and serious, but the acting is really strong. It's not something enjoyable, it's rather upsetting, but it makes us feel a better sense of how tragic the events were, and it gives us a better sense of how the victims felt.
This movie takes a true moment in history where the Catholic Church covered up the molestation of children within the different diocese and makes a great film to watch. This is a movie that people need to watch even if it's difficult to if you're a Catholic yourself or was at a point in your life.
Decent -- Yes, but watchable is not synonymous with Oscar-worthy
Well directed and well acted; it nevertheless is unable to "spotlight" the human factor because of its broad cast of characters. When it comes to a response from the viewer, there is not much difference between watching this film and reading the article that it's about.
Brilhante, simplesmente brilhante...
Incredibly well done, what put it over top was way it honestly time story without sensationalizing or painting Church as a cartoony evil.
One of the better journalism films I can recall. The entire cast is game, specifically Ruffalo. The secrets uncovered throughout make for some top notch suspense.
What the reporting done on "All The President's Men" did for Nixon, Spotlight did for abuse allegations made against the church exposing how the church were able to get way from being persecuted or held accountable this long despite those allegations being well known .  Second movie of Michael Keaton on the newspaper industry..
Rarely do films with this much information and relevance seem so perfectly in order for the audience to both understand what it is trying to represent and feel for the people involved.
Wow. This is an incredible film. This movie takes an unflinching look at the investigation and circumstances surrounding the massive-scale child abuse perpetrated by priests and covered up by the Catholic Church. And man, is it powerful. It seems like a movie about journalists would be on the dull side, but this movie was totally engrossing. It's so well written and constructed, the 2-hour run-time passed in a flash, and it even left me wanting more. As the characters learn about how widespread the problem is, you can literally watch their shock and horror grow... as does the viewer's. In making a film like this, it's easy to blame the corrupt institution that perpetuated this violence, but this film takes it to another level and makes it abundantly clear that there is enough blame to go around. This abuse was systemic, not only within the church, but within our culture. As it is so eloquently stated in the movie, "If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one." My only criticism is that the beginning felt a little rushed, I wish they had spent more time explaining who was who. While "The Revenant" is excellent filmmaking, "Spotlight" is excellent storytelling.... and a well-told story will get my vote every time. Actors at the top of their game, competent direction, and fantastic writing combine to make what I believe should be the Best Picture winner. I already want to see it again.
From a small scandal to one state-wide and beyond, the pacing of the film is brilliant, with well-written characters and enough shock value and intrigued to keep you watching.
Amazing.  The acting is superb and it's an amazing movie
Spotlight tells the true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core.

Overall, I found Spotlight to be one the best films I've ever seen. As much as I love journalism, I found Spotlight to nail every bit of journalism. From sacrifices, commitments, disturbing facts, and uncovering the truth. Spotlight was hands down the best film of 2015. Spotlight's acting ensemble was grade A incredible. Ruffalo, Keaton, McAdams, Tucci, and Schreiber, were a powerhouse cast, that you cannot take your eyes off of. Screenwriters McCarthy and Singer, truly nail on what the Spotlight team did: find the truth. Spotlight is definite must-see, that will somewhat change the way you positively think about the catholic church's, and Vatican.
this movie is so good it makes you feel everything.
Spotlight depicts a real story from a boston globe journalist group who investigated allegations of child abuse from the catholic church, the level of realism is impressive the cuts are subtle and well made and the plot is very well built since it is a A film that passes a lot of information, papers, documents, the chance that the film becomes boring was great but the plot does not let that happen, the subject is very shocking and this gives a great mystery to the plot besides being fluid exploring very well The teamwork of journalists, the cast is perfect actors fit very well in their roles giving a very real sense of realism to the movie that sometimes looks like a documentary, all in a way are contained at a certain point what makes scenes where their emotions Appear to be much more impacting, in general in a film made not for the entertainment but to tell a good story infattering how the Catholic institution controls Everything and everyone and protects their even from acts like rape. The film tackles a real story and a seriously controversial theme very well and with mastery, in general there is not much that changes in him.note 100
Incredible story-telling at its finest. A total must-see and all the more remarkable for being a true story.
emotionally powerful masterfully acted
god bless good journalism
One of my new all time favs.....amazing acting, amazing story, just all around a wonderful movie
Yes the message in this story is powerful, but it was so boring with the whole process, it's too draggy as well and I didn't enjoy one bit of the movie.
Very fascinating topic that unfolds well on screen.
Stellar performances from an excellent cast.  Not terribly cinematic, but it's a very compelling story.
Una buena historia no asegura una buena película, esta si bien esta bien trabajada no tiene nada en la manera de ser narrada que atrape.
God bless the catholic church
A fantastic movie with great acting and amazing writing.
Nice acting, intense investigative journalism movie
Pretty solid performances and an interesting story.  A bit of a sow start though but a good solid 4 stars.
A good film showing the abuse perpetrated by white cathos and the lack of justice in the democratic "america". A slap to the face of those who think the Catolic church perpetuates socialist values. But, I feel like the theme of abuse is not explored enough, why not talk about the Franklin scandal ? The multicultural children kidnapped and kept as sexual slaves to powerful whites ? Kid of a shame it is so short sighted, It's made from whites to the white Oscar judges. This is a step forward, even if the all white cast is kind of depressing.
i still have no idea how this movie was movie of the year. I get it,the topic is controversial  and good actora,but it was so boring. too much dialogue had me bored to tears, i even left the theater early
This is one of those movies that could easily be something boring to watch but the director did such a great job at making the movie entertaining and almost suspenseful to watch. 

I'm glad movies like these are being made, same goes with The Big Short. Great movie overall!
without a doubt the best movie of the year. Spotlight is powerful brilliantly acted and an important true story extremely well told.
This is one of those movies you cannot multitask during.  every word counts.  I recommend tissues.
I don't see way people love it so much. Crap as far as I can tell
Captivating story that keeps you invested into the journal investigation that actually is about something that matters!
Nothing exceptional, but also no weaknesses. This is a very, very good movie.
Hell of a movie. One of the better paced dramas I've seen in a long time
Don't underestimate the power of journalism! My salute to the real Spotlight team and all the people who made this film. Goosebumps all the way through. You won't believe the events portrayed in the film actually happened in the real world. Highly Recommended!
Perfect storytelling, acting and directing. Saw the premier in a crowded Boston theater and the audience was visibly and audibly shaken and moved.  One of the best movies in years.
A great detail study on journalism that matters. The awful discovery that the Catholic Church as an institution is corrupt and the dealings of sexual abuse make this movie a hard one to watch for Catholics. The cast did a great job to keep the slow moments interesting. However, I wouldn't have ever guessed it merited an Academy Award for best movie. A-
I took a while getting around to watching this because just thinking about the topic unsettled me.  That feeling certainly never left as I watched but I don't regret watching it.  I feel the story is told in a straightforward way that, more than getting me up in arms, asks me to reflect on the part I play in the human drama we all help to create.
"oscar worthy with a stellar cast and outstanding performances. gripping and on target."
SPOTLIGHT (2015) Calificación: 8.5/10
For Spotlight, the story of a real team of Boston Globe reporters who uncovered a wide-reaching child abuse scandal, the film's greatest virtue seems to be its verisimilitude. Every review I have read by critics that either work for newspapers or have studied journalism, extolls the film's accurate portrayal of journalists and their profession. Comparisons to Oscar-nominated All the President's Men are ubiquitous and inevitable; both are dramatizations of true stories about journalists uncovering crimes and cover-ups involving powerful institutions. Like All the President's Men, and two other 2015 Best Picture nominees-The Big Short and Bridge of Spies, Spotlight depicts a true story to which we already know the outcome. However, the film is so well-executed that we are right with the characters in each moment, feeling, as they do, what must happen, but unsure whether they will succeed. 

Early in Spotlight, the Globe's new editor-in-chief, Marty Baron (played with a laconic manner and inscrutable expression by Liev Schrieber) is summoned for a meet-and-greet with Cardinal Law, head of the Boston Archdiocese. Law tells him, "The city flourishes when its great institutions work together," The Cardinal's notion of working together implies that the Globe will protect the interests of the Church; a notion which puts Baron on guard. After reading a column about a sexually abusive Boston priest, Baron urges Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) to have his team of investigative reporters, known as Spotlight, make their next project about sexual abuse within the Church and the cover-up by the Archdiocese. Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and Brian d'Arcy James are the three other members of the Spotlight team. The more they dig into the known cases of sexual abuse of children by priests, they quickly discover that they are not dealing with one or two isolated cases of abuse, but something far bigger and more disturbing. The frequency of the abuse, and lack of consequences for the abusers, points to an insidious cover-up, reaching all the way to Cardinal Law himself. However, the team needs hard proof to support their story and the search for that proof is where the plot of Spotlight builds its momentum. 

Spotlight has an impressive cast, but the real stars of the movie are the devastating facts and the testimonials of the survivors. We follow the reporters down their investigative trail, searching through reams of papers, having conversations with lawyers and Church representatives, and tracking down survivors willing to share their stories. Court appeals to open sealed documents and searches for records in basement file cabinets are executed as engaging and suspenseful action. As reporter Sacha Pfeiffer, McAdams conducts several interviews with survivors of abuse. The scenes build slowly - the reporter knows she can't push for answers; they have to tell their stories at their own speed. McAdams, as the stand-in for the audience, must patiently listen and these are among the most powerful and effective scenes in the film.

Every character, major and minor, feels like a real person; which is good because this story really happened to real people. Mark Ruffalo gets top billing and has received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for a performance which some feel is the best of the ensemble. With a pronounced accent and mannerisms, it is certainly the most noticeable. Even in scenes with Stanley Tucci (an actor who is always ready to steal a scene, or the entire movie) as an eccentric, sharp-tongued lawyer with crazy hair who is bringing a suit against the Church, Ruffalo somehow manages to be the showier performer. Ruffalo's performance is not bad, but it does stick out among an ensemble of naturalistic performances. Keaton and the others seem to disappear into their roles instead of wearing them. 

Tom McCarthy's Oscar-nominated direction gives Spotlight a straightforward, but not dull, visual style. The camera and screenplay keep their focus on the characters and the investigation. This movie could have easily slipped into a series of fist-pounding speeches of righteous indignation (one scene with Ruffalo's character that feels more obligatory than earned comes the closest) and made the Globe reporters into crusaders, but McCarthy and co-writer Josh Singer, along with the excellent ensemble, keep the tone of the movie subdued and grounded in reality. 

Spotlight is smart enough to know that it doesn't have to tell its audience when to feel frustrated, repulsed, and outraged-the facts speak for themselves. The Spotlight team naturally faces resistance from the Church and their lawyers, but, somewhat surprisingly, also from the community. Boston is a largely Catholic community after all (each of the Spotlight reporters is a lapsed Catholic); but more than that, they resist against having to acknowledge such an endemic problem exists, as if by denying the problem, they escape implication. Even the Globe staff had mishandled and buried past stories about sexual abuse by priests. One person who helped the Church cover up abuse cases says that he was just doing his job. The reporters of the Spotlight team are also just doing their jobs, and fortunately they are very good at their jobs.
I do not comment on many films, but Spotlight is such a powerful film, that tugged at my heart, with sympathy for the victims of these crimes and disdain for the system that let them down.     I am so sad that the box office does not reflect the lessons that need to be learned from a film such as this
Spotlight gracefully handles the lurid details of its fact-based story in a drama that honors the audience as well as its real-life subjects.
Absolutely incredible. Carefully handled, well-acted and beautifully shot + directed. EIther makes you want to be a journalist or thank one.
Both the film's characters and their real-life counterparts emphasize the power of the press, the power of investigative journalism, and the power of care and compassion. Without exaggerating too much of its subject matter, Spotlight is a worthy achievement of film in its own right and it does so with real, believable emotions.
Not bad, just very ordinary. Had the feeling I had already seen it.
"Good but ordinary".
Who'da thought a movie about a newspaper exposing the Church would be so thrilling? Wonderful acting and writing, and pulled off well by an all-star cast. Can't really say much bad about a film like this. Let truth win.
One of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  Was worried it would be boring but it was riveting.
Whilst unevenly paced at times, Spotlight is a haunting film that dives deep into the horrors of the subject matter which it deals with.
I thought this was a very good movie and would recommend it to anyone.
Bello e interessante. Il tema é scomodo ma evita elegantemente di indugiare sugli aspetti scabrosi. Ruffalo bravissimo.
*Worst Movie.  Points off for winning Best Picture.  What a forgettable boring movie.  This movie does wrong everything that Zodiac and All the Presidents Men did right.  How many times have you rewatched this.  Never.  I knew it.
Thoroughly felt grateful for the Spotlight team. A story that never loses its pace, movie of the year 2015. 9.5/10 (rewatch).
Spotlight goes about its business in such an unheralded, quiet manner, yet the sense of discovery and intimate power innately found therein is truly mesmerizing, in the most unassuming way.
Finally got a chance to see this Oscar winner and it delivered. It's simply stunning what the Catholic Church has covered up over the years and they way they've simply shuffled off these child predators off to other locales. So glad to know they've changed course the past few years, but this shows the value of good reporting. We need these people out there doing their jobs to cast a light on the evils that men do so that we can make the necessary changes to get them out of power. Great film.
Brilliant film bringing to light the investigation of a really important topic.  All the actors are great and the tension is good.  Thoroughly deserving of its Academic Award.
Straightforward unsensational expose.
What was initially a ropey start with dubious music and a distinct feeling of television movies from the 90s soon turned into an interesting piece on journalism and conspiracies. The cast is absolutely stellar and once I adpated to their boston accents they were a joy throughout. Liev Shreiber continues to be a very diverse actor while Ruffalo and Keaton are always dependable (it's good to see Keaton being more active). The cover up is despicable from the ones actively involved but the film does a great job of showing it was also covered up by those simply not wanting to believe it was so widespread and even those who ignored because it didn't seem a big enough story at the time. It's a film that reminds you investigative journalism is still of vital importance and that the news isn't just about celebrities, advertising and clickbait.
Best movie in 2015 for sure. They really managed to represent true story with good cast. Recommended.
Spotlight is a good film with a great purpose behind its release. However it may be a few minutes too long.
Wow when they show the list at the end I got goosebumps and a sick feeling of disgust.
Astonishingly powerful film with an incredible cast. Spotlight manages to present its subject matter in a poignant way and avoids unnecessary 'hero-worshipping' of the subjects. Sure the plot can get rather jumbled at times but that serves to give the impression of the sheer volume of work, links and leads that the real life subjects had to go through. 
Brilliant, absolutely brilliant.
The best ensemble performance in years, assuredly crafted and presented. Worthy of it's awards.
An absolute top-notch cast with great acting. However, director McCarthy fails to tell a compelling story. Its pace is predictable; the reporters are chasing lead after lead and after half an hour you know how the movie is going to unfold. Unfortunately, the brilliance of the actors just isn't enough to grip the attention of the audience.
I like movies where there is a strong story and the actors don't try hard at all to tell u that story :) this is one of those movies!
This best-made film I've seen in a long, long time. No complaints about anything.
Spotlight is way too boring to even care about all its technical achievements.
Bem feito, e aborda um tema relevante. Porém esquecível. Filme extremamente super estimado. Mereceu o mesmo o Oscar de melhor filme ?
It won best picture for a reason right.
I try not to compare this to All The President's Men... but I have to.

It's not so well paced or exciting as you'd think, but Spotlight is in its own way. It also presented the media in a positive light, and it's production value does not disappoint. But comparing it to The Revenant, I honestly don't disagree the Oscar shouldn't have gone to this indie drama.
THIS is what The Big Short could have been . .  but . . . was NOT for purely political reasons.

Imagine Spotlight without unqualifiedly right and proper references to homosexual pedophilia by Roman Catholic priests . . . well . . . THAT is what The Big Short was without right and proper references to Clinton/Dodd/Frank forcing American financial institutions to loan to objectively NOT creditworthy borrowers.

Spotlight's cast was highlighted by typically outstanding performance by Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and Stanley Tucci and Len Cariou.

Tight script coupled with outstanding directing and superb editing . . . Spotlight is a winner.  Buy it . . . see it . . . collect it for future reference of what GREAT semi-documentary can be.
Deserved of the Oscar praise!
While it wasn't my first reaction when I sat down to watch "Spotlight," I did have a nagging feeling in the back of my brain as it started that this could just be one of those "Award Bait" films that overdoes its drama, tries really hard to make it look artsy without really injecting anything creative and overflowing its cast with lots of big name actors in order to buy itself some gravitas.  Thankfully, the movie proved to be none of that as it was a fantastically acted, extremely grounded in its drama and the whole thing felt very real and meaningful.  It has no flash and the presentation is fairly by-the-numbers but it is in the real-feel drama it provides and the ridiculously sympathetic and realistic performances that make this story adapted from real life very engaging and emotional.  The only drawback I had for the film is that I don't see a lot of replay potential in it for me but that doesn't stop it from being a truly amazing film.

Hello!  My name is Rev. Ron and if you feel like checking out more of my reviews you can visit my blog at RevRonMovies.BlogSpot.com.  You can also head on over to TheRobotsPajamas.com for various articles I write there and, if you want to, you can follow me on Twitter (@RevRonster).  Thanks!
A biopic without strong acting and lines, but an excellent demonstration of pace. With that said, the power of press itself cannot win the Best Pic.
A stellar ensemble cast enriches Spotlight's tedious plot into the best movie of the year.  McCarthy sheds light on the arduous process of writing a major story from gathering information to coverage and ultimately publishing. It can feel difficult to focus at parts but it builds momentum and delivers a satisfactory conclusion.
Spotlight benefits from dedicated actors, a stellar script, and a relevant issue to spin together a high caliber modern newspaper story.
White collar pornography at its finest.
Worth 4 stars simply for addressing the subject in an honest fashion. I sensed a little journalistic caution, though. It could have hit even harder.
Sad topic. Very well told. Superb acting. You know the ending going in but the film still maintains a sense of urgency. Very well paced I thought.
Powerful & Independent Journalism in 2hours! & also about how institutional power degrades, when its taken for granted!
Intense drama that makes us wonder about the world and its society. With a cast full of brilliant actors, this movie is a must-see in everyone's list.
Amazing movie. I thought Mark Ruffalo deserved an Oscar nomination.
Good film carried by great directing and performances. It's plot has been laid out by the historical events it is based on, which isn't always a plus, but the story gets what it deserves. I personally would have liked to see a little bit more character development, but the film wasn't made to make you like the characters, but rather showcase the historical event that took place.
Apparently there used to be something called "newspapers" where "journalists" checked their "facts."  Seriously, though, this is a good movie, even if too safe and sanitized for my tastes.
A dramatisation of the true 2002 Boston Globe investigative team called spotlight  uncovering of Catholic Priest child molestation on a systemic scale including decades of abuse going back to the 70s. It avoids the pitfall of righteous indignation and specific film heroes. It sticks to the facts and the actors dramatise it well. The sad thing, it is still going on - children are still coming forward with recent accusations of molestation. The Globe revealed the extent to which the Catholic hierarchy systematically covered up abuses by first just moving the priest to another area and getting the victims to accept small and secret compensations. They avoided any public records by calling it a 'private mediation' so lawyers were involved (taking a 30% cut of the typically $20k compensation) but not in a public court. Moreover the victims' families were encouraged to keep quiet about it and not even talk to their fellow parishioners. Even the boss of the Spotlight team admitted he had ignored a report of 20 abusive priest 20 years prior as he did not believe it.
The film ends with a list of other American cities that have uncovered a similar pattern of cover up (pages and pages) and then goes on to cities world-wide. It is world-wide scandal that the Catholic Church needs to resolve and bring those abusers to justice.
It is a worthy, sombre, serious drama that people should see.
You may already know the story, but thanks to a great cast this is still a great watch and continues the long time love affair between cinema and journalism.
Sleeper-hit. Hadn't heard of it until it won Best Picture. Told like a mystery drama, edge of your seat stuff.
Everyone needs to see this movie it's one of the most important films I've ever watched
Intense and Brilliant Thriller!

This film tells the riveting true story of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Boston Globe investigation that would rock the city and cause a crisis in one of the world's oldest and most trusted institutions. When the newspaper's tenacious 'Spotlight' team of reporters delves into allegations of abuse in the Catholic Church, their year-long investigation uncovers a decades-long cover-up at the highest levels of Boston's religious, legal, and government establishment, touching off a wave of revelations around the world. This tense investigative dramatic-thriller traces the steps to one of the biggest cover-ups in modern times.

I loved this movie! As someone who studied journalism in college and worked at a newspaper in my early 20s, I was fascinated by this story regarding the Boston Globe's in-depth investigation of the Catholic Church. In my opinion, it is one of the greatest newspaper pieces ever made. In fact, as Ann Hornaday of the Washington Post wrote, "It's not a stretch to suggest that 'Spotlight' is the finest newspaper movie of its era, joining 'Citizen Kane' and 'All The President's Men' in the pantheon of classics of the genre." I couldn't agree more! Two thumbs up!
Excellent film on good investigative journalism being an important moral watchdog of society.
This movie is a screenwriting class !
my eyes are brimming over with tears, my heart is heavy because this story is true.  I'm so sorry for how the church could hurt so many, and handle it so wrongly.
Una de las mejores pelìculas sobre el periodismo de los ùltimos años.
Good film about a difficult subject
is based on a true story. It is an investigative dramatic-thriller set in 2001-02. The Boston Globe an American newspaper, investigative team 'Spotlight' expose the story of sexual abuse and cover-ups in the Catholic Church. All of the main characters in the film has performed well. A riveting tale that won itself Best Picture at the Oscar earlier this year.
Well written, directed and portrayed by a great cast.
Enjoyed the movie, but the subject matter breaks my trust of anyone in a position of power.
Spotlight is the rare true story film that refuses to give in to Hollywood pandering and instead depicts its heroes as merely human beings trying to do the right thing.
great cast and story
Investigative journalism can be exciting -- and Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and Michael Keaton, among others, help to make it so.  Taking a page from All the President's Men (1976), director Tom McCarthy tells us the story of the Boston Globe's Pulitzer Prize winning exposure of the Catholic Church's cover-up of an epidemic of paedophile priests.  The story is still reverberating today and around the world.  Despite the absorbing nature of the hunt for clues, evidence, or a smoking gun, at its heart this is a profoundly depressing story.  After all, it is child sexual abuse we are talking about.  Howard Shore's music is suitably downbeat and ruminative.  The actors temper their zeal with gravity.  Yet, is the issue really given enough of a serious treatment?  Viewers may be able to focus on the newspaper room without having to think too carefully or clearly about abuse, even though we hear victims describe their experiences and are told that many have committed suicide or engaged in self-defeating behaviour.  Not that I'd want to watch a more harrowing version of this - so perhaps the journalistic thriller genre is the best way to bring the issues into the public eye (if they weren't already).  McCarthy and Josh Singer won the Oscar for their screenplay, which is all talk but engaging and not sensationalistic, and of course the film won the Best Picture Oscar as well.
A gritty, strong film with incredible performance.  The Catholic Church as an institution comes out in sharply deliberated dark light.
simply great movie,with charming soundtrack,oscar worthy screenplay, great acting from keaton and ruffalo so as rachel mccadams but not an oscar nomination worthy very enjoyable but not best picture of the year but in the end bravo tom mccarthy
Perfectly executed praise of the power of the press. A stellar cast and flawless direction make for an engaging and highly entertaining result. It doesn't even take major shockers to make this such a satisfying and smart movie. It requires some concentration but is ultimately even more rewarding for it.
Even though you know the story always a bit shocking to have it reiterated.
The best movie of 2015.  An absolutely phenomenal film that gets better with each viewing.  Mark Ruffalo gives the best performance of his career (With all due respect to Mark Rylance, Ruffalo should have won the Academy Award.).  The entire cast is excellent as well.  "Spotlight" also makes a point that many people fail to realize.  Print journalism is still a very important and relevant medium even today in the age of "The Huffington Post" and other online newspapers.  I am very happy this film took home the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay, but it should have won every category it was nominated in.  In is that great of a film.
Wow - thank goodness for real investigative journalism.
Not an easy watch, but brilliant in its own right.
One of the best films of the decade. Up there with All The President's Men as a reminder of the power of journalism as a force for good.
Despite it's unsettling true story, Tom McCarthy and Josh Singers's screenplay and the excellent ensemble cast deliver justice to the unfortunate events and a compelling statement about morals and the power of journalism.
https://sites.google.com/view/ttbreviews/our-company/spotlight
Spotlight tackles a touchy subject with finesse supported by great performances and detailed writing.
If you want to understand why real journalism, investigative journalism is important and should be funded, watch this. A strong subject, an incredible cast masterfully put together. Definitely one of the best movies of 2015.
Best movie ever. No flaw what so ever. The true beauty of this movie is in the dialogue and the editing.
If you liked the theme behind All the President's Men you will love this movie.  High drama and an all-star cast.  Recommended.
Disturbing and powerful - they don't make movies like this one.
While most might find it a little late, Spotlight is still an important film because it's still just as relevant today. It's a fascinating film telling an equally fascinating story.
Other than the "Oscar Speech", this is really solid.
Tremendo Drama basado en Hechos Reales.
The best movie of the year. Everything about this movie is on point, the spotlight shone on the mass abuse and widely hidden scandal of the Catholic Church.  A hard hitting drama that is not to be missed!
Riveting !  A journeyman ensemble cast guides this consummately linear Tom McCarthy/Josh Singer screenplay home. No smoke, no mirrors. Add  a pair of well deserved Oscars to the Globe Spotlight Team's Pulitzer Prize. 

For the record, there are 18 Roman Catholic Archdioceses and 72 Dioceses in Canada. The Archdioceses of St. John's, NL and Sherbrooke, QC appear on the list (at the end of the film) of Dioceses that have been involved in similar cover-ups.
Oh yes--- find the reviewers who didn't like this and cross them off your list.  This is exactly what hollywood movies should be--- exciting, fun, superbly directed, and meaningful too.  Rare.
Both essential and well-made, 'Spotlight' captures and reflects the horrors of reality at its finest.
everyone does have to right to know about these incidents
I am not pro-Catholic or pro-religion but I just don't see this as anywhere near a great movie. It was boring and poorly acted/directed. It took me two painful sittings to get through it and I only did that since I was told how great a movie it was. It was slow-paced and hard to keep focused on what was supposedly "happening". I appreciate the efforts of the Boston Globe to pursue sexual predators but that effort did not translate to the big screen in my opinion. Extremely average movie at best.
Excelent! in addition to showing a global reality,  it does demonstrate as should be a job as a reporter.
A great thriller movie, see it it's brilliant.
This film brilliantly portrays the true story of how the Catholic church pedophile scandal was revealed.  What's more important is that it shows how necessary investigative journalism is in this dying newspaper age.  Mark Ruffalo stands out with his amazing Oscar nominated performance.
An important and a must watch movie!
Better than I thought it would be!  I was not only surprises this was available on Netflix Streaming, but also because neither Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo didn't win Oscars. I am glad it won Best Picture.
Thoroughly gripping.
Great drama, great cast. Good look at investigative journalism.  I'm a sucker for a lot of talking in a movie. Conversations between characters may be the most important and compelling aspect of a movie for me.
I think the only reason why this movie won the oscar instead of Whiplash and Mad max is  because it is  an anticatholic propaganda movie.
I can't find fault with this film. My date was bothered by the lack of coverage of the church's response to the corruption in the epilogue sequence; besides that, she had no complaints either. I previously worked as an investigative researcher at an anti-corruption nonprofit, and this movie gave me chills and made me miss my old employer - it really nailed the joy of the journalistic hunt for bad guys. All acting was excellent, especially Stanley Tucci, Mark Ruffalo, and Rachel McAdams. I would watch this again.
The characters are not the focus here, it's the slow reveal of the gut-churning information. Spotlight is the very definition of an important and relevant film.
A true thriller without any action scenes required.
Some movies are more important for their topics than for their realization. Ok, but it's not that bad if a movie with a serious act of denounce, is also a great movie!
Informative, great performances & story.
Plot: WITH 6 OSCAR NOMINATIONS, SPOTLIGHT IS OBVIOUSLY A MUST SEE FLICK!

Review:
HAVE YOU EVER DANCED WITH THE DEVIL IN THE PALE SPOTLIGHT?

WITH 6 OSCAR NOMINATIONS, SPOTLIGHT IS OBVIOUSLY A MUST SEE FLICK! 

SPOTLIGHT is about how in 2001, editor Marty Baron, played by Liev Schreiber (X - Men Origins: Wolverine, Salt) of The Boston Globe assigns a team of journalists to investigate John Geoghan, a priest accused of molesting more than 80 boys. The team of journalist are led by editor Walter "Robby" Robinson, played by Michael Keaton ("I'm Batman.") , reporters Michael Rezendes, played by Mark Ruffalo (13 Going On 30, The Avengers). The reporters make it their mission to provide proof of a cover up of sexual abuse within the Roman Catholic Church. 

When I first saw the trailer to this movie, I didn't know what to really expect. It came off like a drama, likeness of an independent film, and the type of film a big budget studio wouldn't really make. Especially with the subject matter, and the real life story they want to show on the big screen. 

The problem with many movies based on real life stories, crime, dramas, and cover-ups is you get the feeling as if you are watching that genre. With Spotlight, you really don't know. As the movie unfolds, you learn more; are exposed to more, and see more of what goes on in this world. The writing was phenomenal. I really like how as the story goes along, we see what really goes on behind closed doors. Both legally and with our characters. A ton of real life stories turned into films also suffer from the same format of we need the hero. In this film, the journalists do not really come off as heroes, but everyday people. Meaning, people who do their job, report well, care about justice, and people who simply come off like real individuals. 

In addition, the acting is toned down, but in a good way. The actors and actresses come across like everyday people. No one in this film over acts or seems as if they are acting to win an award. For instance, when you receive bad news, do you act like Samuel L. Jackson in the movie Changing Lanes? Meaning, do you pick up a computer and throw into a glass wall? Or do you shake your head, raise your eyebrows and maybe use profanity under your breath? In my opinion, Sacha Pfeiffer, played by Rachel McAdams (Wedding Crashers, About Time) does an amazing job! I believe that this is Rachel McAdams best movie in a very long time. She acts well, comes off like a good person, helpful, has a purpose, and she really stepped it up with her performance.

BATMAN AND THE HULK ARE ON SCREEN TOGETHER! Says the one nerd in the theater (me).

Once again, I'm glad to see Michael Keaton back in an Oscar worthy film. Mark Ruffalo also is delivering a good performance, and is easily getting better with every movie that comes up. 

So these are my final Bitchin' Buddha thoughts on the film Spotlight. It's very well written, informative, well acted performances from everyone, disturbing at times, and overall a film that is at least worth checking out at least once in your lifetime. I believe Spotlight earns a...

4 out of 5!

Thank you all for reading and or viewing, and I hope you all have an amazing day as always. :)
Spotlight is such a spectacular film for its realness, and that comes from it being greatly acted and directed. This film was very shocking and disturbing but not in the way you would think. The chats between all characters were so real and riveting that it felt like you weren't even looking at a screen, it felt like you were in it.
Wow. One of the best provocative films I've ever seen, absolutely riveting - definitely deserved the Best Picture Oscar.
This movie is very direct, very real. No over the top camera work, no crazy characters, it was simply allowed to unravel in front of you. It is a must see and the story is not over.
I'm having a hard time wrapping my head around the notion that someone can write and direct a really awful film and then, a few months later, come up with an absolutely great film. The awful film here is THE COBBLER, which I reviewed a few months back. The great film is SPOTLIGHT, which was directed and co-written by Tom McCarthy.

In 2001, the New York Times purchased the Boston Globe, and Marty Baron was brought in as the latter paper's new editor-in-chief. For the Times, it was a risky move. Baron, who came from the Miami Herald where he was the executive editor, knew nothing about Boston or its politics. Moreover, he was Jewish in a city where more than half of the paper's readership was Catholic. For the Globe's journalists, it was a nervous time as Baron had a reputation for trimming costs, which included cutting headcount and resources. But, as they quickly discovered, Baron's reputation differed from reality. He wanted to make the Globe relevant again, at a time when the Internet was just starting to make dents in the bottom lines of newspapers everywhere. Very early on in his tenure, he gave the paper's hard-hitting investigative reporting group, Spotlight, a new assignment: The Globe had previously run a story - buried in the paper's Metro section - about a pedophile priest. Although the Archbishop of Boston had subsequently removed the priest from his position and had the courts seal the legal documents to the case, Baron sensed there was something more to the story and he wanted the Spotlight Team to find out what it was.

What started out as an isolated case of sexual abuse of minors involving one priest quickly snowballed into a scandal involving dozens of priests in the Catholic archdiocese in Boston alone, with the cover-up involving the Church, its supporters and its lawyers. The Globe's exposé, which broke in early 2002, resulted in criminal prosecutions and convictions of five priests, and the resignation of Cardinal Law later that year. It also triggered a discussion about sexual abuse in the Church that echoed around the world including in the office of the Pope. The paper ran more than 600 stories on the subject over the course of year earning the Spotlight Team a Pulitzer Prize in 2003.

The movie, SPOTLIGHT, tells the story of that team of investigative journalists - Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton, BIRDMAN), Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo, BEGIN AGAIN), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams, TV's TRUE DETECTIVE) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James) - and their assistant managing editor, Ben Bradlee Jr. (John Slattery, TV's MAD MEN), who worked on the story for over six months before it broke the systemic pattern of abuse and cover-up wide open. The film is an ode to the type of journalism that is sadly dying out under the pressure for instant news and the growing relationship between governments, business interests and the media that influences what we read, hear and see today.

Many critics have drawn positive comparisons to the 1976 film, ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, which documents the Washington Post's pursuit of the Watergate scandal. Interestingly, the executive editor at the Post back then was Ben Bradlee (played by Jason Robards), the father of Ben Bradlee Jr. Neither film is very sexy or glamourous. They just show - quite accurately, it is said - the hours of painstaking research, the pouring over detailed information, the attempts to get people to tell you things that they may not want to tell you (for any number of reasons), and the checking and re-checking of facts that go into this craft.

Baron (Liev Schreiber, FADING GIGOLO) had told the Spotlight Team to focus on the institutional aspect of the abuse; that is, who knew what and when, and what they did or didn't do about it, rather than simply trying to take down Cardinal Law. The film follows the same dispassionate tack, shying away from gratuitous flashback scenes of abuse or conspiracy and instead focusing on the journalists who patiently gather their evidence and build their story piece by piece. In this era of 24-hour news where the truth often gets trampled on for the sake of being first, it's comforting to know that there are still teams like Spotlight in place that can keep the bad guys in check and remind us all of how reporting should be.

SPOTLIGHT is storytelling and ensemble acting at its best.
The movie is a true life story of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Boston Globe investigation on the taboo subject of child abusive by priests. I knew these things happened but the way it goes about to prove how a system exist to handle and supress the data was shocking. The performance by the ensemble cast is superb, the directions spot on. The movie never try's to dramatize anything; it tries to be deliver the information much like a documentary only with a great cast and direction.
Good story and acting.  Intrusive music and some of dialogue hard to follow.
standard journalism, what else?
Amazing movie based on a true story. I'm so glad this movie was made so it forces more of a 'spotlight' on those events, and the similar events happening today. Justice needs done!
Spotlight is a decent film. It is the story of how the Boston Globe who uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese. Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton give good performances. The script is a little slow in places. Tom McCarthy did an alright job directing this movie. I liked this motion picture of the drama.
This is a must watch. This real story of the mass cover ups by the catholic church of rape and molestation is a story that needs to be heard, and this movie is a machine that is optimized to get the job done. There is no directorial flair, no amazing shots, no real theme even, but a simple presentation so that you are drawn into the realness of the story. The stellar cast plays as a true ensemble, with every character given their own attachment to the issue. They each mirror some portion of society, so everyone has someone to relate to. The characters show emotion, not the storytelling, which allows you to empathize where you can, and you're not forced to have an opinion. The story telling is done in a slow burn, gradually allowing you to understand the magnitude of the  issue, make a difficult pill easier to swallow. This is a movie with a mission, that is reporting the story, not giving a spin on it, mirroring the investigative journalism it depicts.
A really good movie with a very solid cast from top to bottom. Exploring the Catholic Priest Molestation Scandal through the perspective of the reporters who blew the case open was a great idea.
Bon film, Mark Ruffalo est vraiment excellent. Ça aurait cependant pu être encore plus excitant sans travestir l'histoire.
a solid film on an uncomfortable subject...great script...impeccable acting...specially by Ruffalo & Keaton...a terrific procedural drama that celebrates journalism...
Everyone needs to watch this movie.
Intriguing and compelling, I'm just utterly speechless after watching this movie. One of the best movie about journalism out there. If not, the best. Period
Spotlight tells the fascinatingly dark true story of an investigatory journalist team working within the Boston Globe in the early 2000s. Renown for their probing, detailed format they are tasked by the paper's new editor to investigate a cover-up scandal - mass child molestation within the Catholic church. The sickening premise of what they uncover escalates far beyond what they could have ever predicted. The journalists on screen and us (the audience) are forced to question: how could a situation that had effected so many been silenced for so long, and furthermore, who is responsible?

What starts as an ensemble cast becomes narratively driven by Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton's characters, who stood out and resonated most for me. All the crucial characters come with some form of religious baggage, with backgrounds in catholic school or family patronage. All actors involved handle their roles with respect and balance. This is not a film that focuses on individual character development. It's more of a navigation of the wider journalistic story. In its more than 2 hour runtime, the plot is relentless, with information streaming constantly without pause. 
The issue at the heart of Spotlight's narrative could have very easily been hate-fueled, singlehandedly brandishing blame on the church, or religion in general. But the tone doesn't handle the issue in that way. Instead, by the finale, we discover the deeper context. Others members of the community had contributed to the negligence, including attorneys and the press themselves. When the film ended, I was left with this ambiguous and unsettled feeling. The extent of the abuse is incomprehensible and heartbreaking - and you know that this lengthy cinematic adaptation is only skimming the surface.
Spotlight is a riveting journalistic drama that educates and identifies with large-scale corruption in the not so distant past. It delivers intensity in what is essentially a series of scenes where journalist interview persons-of-interest and take a copious amount of notes on spiral notepads.
Spotlight is a biographical investigation film that is directed by Tom McCarthy and stars Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton, Stanley Tucci, and many others. It tells the story about The Boston Globe's team called "Spotlight" who gets a new editor, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) who is given the task to investigate a catholic priest who sexually abused children. This leads the team to find out there is more at hand here than what was entially thought. 
  The movie is a difficult one to review. It's hard to explain it without spoiling it. So let me try to do my best. It's shocking to find out about a dark secret within the Catholic church. I don't know how much of this was real but I knew the end result was indeed real. This movie is admirable in so many ways and is indeed engrossing to watch, however, I find myself bored at times feeling something big should happen. It never does.  The movie goes back and forth between  the"Spotlight" team, the lawyers, and the victims. Sometimes I was sitting there feeling disturbed, other times I wanted it to hurry up. I felt mixed about this initially but after the movie was over I felt like it was something that was very deep. 
  The movie shows the "Spotlight" team as people just trying to do their jobs and actually feel concerned about the story that's going on. I like the fact that they don't glorify themselves but we see them for how reporters are. It also really shines a light on how dark the Catholic church can be or any religion for that matter. There is a sense of shame that they feel but they try so hard to cover it up using lawyers as a shield to protect themselves. It is indeed scary to know that they are this powerful and manipulative. I obviously don't think all priests or religions are involved in molestation but the possibility is something to ponder about. 
  The cast was very well assembled. Everyone's performance feels authentic and real. I mean they feel like actual people that I work with. I particularly liked Mark Ruffalo with his accent (It's hard for me to explain what kind that is) that seems to grow on you as the movie goes on. He even had a very emotional scene that made me really feel for the victims as for his reason for being upset.  This had a few nominations for supporting actor and actress and it's easy to see why. 
  This movie had a lot of nominations and acclaim behind it and it is indeed well directed, well acted, and well written. This is clearly a drama movie and I recommend it. The thing is that I couldn't get past its slow pace and its lack of ambition. Like I said before sometimes I felt uninterested and I felt like I wanted it to end already. There was a lot of info searching and running into walls that kept the movie bogged down. At the ending, I didn't feel the sense of closure or the bang that it should have had. After all the build up I feel like it deserved something more at the end. Post credits it tells you what happens and it's a bit shocking but still, they could have done a better job.
Well made and engaging.
Let me just gag out my minor complaint, before giving this the inevitable good rating: In this generation of television drama being on par with, sometimes topping, cinematic drama, cinema has become much more comfortable in tossing many names of barely seen characters casually, as if we can follow the happenings as quickly as the highly involved characters. Spotlight is a, er, spotlight example of this. Gag, gag, gag.

Ahem. Yes, this is a winner. Revolved around the uncovery of the magnitude of buried cases of priests molesting children, and how the Catholic Church tried to cover up hundreds upon hundreds of such cases through poorly run rehabilitation centers and bribery towards prosecutors, Spotlight is ripe for Oscar-baiting drama and performances. Director and co-screenwriter Tom McCarthy does tailor certain scenes for such, especially for Mark Ruffalo; I could never tell when his character's disgust and impatience were going to scream over his professional exterior, but every time affected me. However, McCarthy also proves he has a strong understanding of both the motives and the mistakes of some of our greatest journalists. Journalism is not simply a tool; it is a responsibility.
"If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one."

First things first, I understand that this review is pretty damn late. But what can I say? Just hadn't thought of watching this film until today. Don't know why.

Let me start off with the positives. Spotlight is a pretty great movie. There are some truly golden moments. Mark Ruffalo. Holy motherfucking shit that guy can act!!!! The guy exudes with hard-working passion that adds a lot to this character. Everyone did a fantastic job at acting, top marks to Stanley Tucci and Rachel Mccadams. Michael Keaton was good, but nothing too poignant.

I don't know if anyone else picked this up on their viewing, but there's a lot of references to candy and other childhood pleasures such as gifts and cake in this film that were presented with such a sickly vibe, it added to the constant cold atmosphere and the shame that resonates not just in each character, but the entirety of Boston at the time.

You can tell that the build up was going to be the release of the paper exposing these priests, but what really fascinates me is the attention to how much legal mumbo jumbo you need to process before getting to an appropriate stage in which 1. The Church won't destroy you and 2. Anyone will care. And this doesn't just come from long hours and neglecting love ones, there is a whole meaty segment on these victims who were portrayed beautifully. You felt like the actors had been through genuine trauma.

So what's not to like? The film is a drama, but the balancing of all the workers at 'Spotlight' meant that only Mark Ruffalo was given any platform to express himself. That was a little disappointing. The pacing in this film is drearily slow. The literal opposite of 'Time flies when you're having fun!'.

Nonetheless, Spotlight I recommend you check out (Although the majority of you already have I can assume. It is a cold film about the long complicated road of 'doing the right thing'.

B+

76/100
An extremely powerful movie that takes on an important story. Beautifully performed by all.
Just the actors bring the movie to life. Classic case of how sometimes and outsiders perspective is needed to change one's way of thinking.
It's hard not to feel both sad and angry watching this film.  The storyline is exceptionally well developed with a solid main cast.  Scene stealers were often those in roles as victim.  Script writing is thoughtful and thought-provoking.  The film stayed with me even after it ended.
Without a doubt one of the truly great Oscar winning movies and one of the best movies ever made about journalism.
I can definitely see why this one was the winner. Very reminiscent of All The President's Men.
Spotlight sin duda algunas es una de las mejores películas que se han hecho basadas en casos reales. La trama es excelente , el misterio , la intriga de lo que pueda llegar a pasar es algo que tiene esta película que no se compara con otras!
Memang pantas jadi Best Picture. Sinematografi memang standar tapi kelebihannya lebih banyak. Action, casting, dan tentunya screenplay lah yang bisa mengantarkan film ini ke podium. Isu sensitive yang berani diusung menjadi daya pendobraknya.
Perfect representation of journalism, and an all around great film.
This movie is another reminder of the importance of paying for a newspaper instead of relying free news sources.
Not without faults - while there are few - Spotlight captures the problem in Boston, and worldwide and without hesitation, due mostly to confident direction and a stellar cast. While personally 'Best Picture' seems a little too big for its boots, Spotlight should however be commended for the heft of its narrative and coping well with a delicate subject matter.
Verdict: A-
Extremely well acted and cleverly directed to keep the audience hooked 'til the last scene.
A movie that will not interest most, bore the rest & probably be uncomfortable for everyone in-between. Movies like this shouldn't be judged on their entertainment factor but more on their purpose & production/presentation especially when it comes to sensitive true story issues like this. Hell, most people didn't even know about this until seeing it in the running for an Oscar for Best Picture. Executed brilliantly with a magnificent cast it had my attention from start to finish.
I liked it Cardinal Law should be in jail
Mark Ruffalo gives one of the best performances I've ever seen on film.
If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one!
This film does shine light on a dark and disturbing problem, and has solid performances. But the direction was just so dry and unremarkable. I just couldn't get into it
Excellent movie-making.
Great movie. Exceptional investigative journalism.
The Boston Globe's special investigators track down the Catholic Church's cover-ups of allegations of priest sexual abuse.
Sparse and tense, Spotlight is a rather uncomplicated film about people doing their jobs well. Director Tom McCarthy must have studied All the President's Men because the same themes and terse narrative style reverberate in both films. 
Although Mark Ruffalo may have gotten the mannerisms and movements of his character down pat, there isn't a flashy or extraordinary performance; the actors, like the film, are just compellingly solid.
Overall, this film is a deserving winner for Best Picture even if it doesn't have the extraordinary sequences of The Revenant.
The real story was epic,but the movie isn't that good he didn't deserve the Oscar ! Overrated
Amazing all around from the cast to  the story.  Brilliant film with great performances and gripping partly because it's based on a true story.
fantastic movie about some of our darkest truths.
Great acting serious subject matter but boring in spots
Well done anti-religion propaganda.
Really brings to light how huge of a story the journalists had to put together for this to get national attention
Great movie. Started off slow but it picked up really nice and kept me at the edge of my seat.
It's easy to dismiss this tradgedy as old news, something we've all heard before and think we know. This movie helped me move past my safe, structured world view and see what humanity is capable of doing yo itself.  It's not something I hope to find too often in the coming future.
"Spotlight" tells the true story of when the The Boston Globe uncovered a scandal of priest molestation that reached up to the highest levels of the Catholic Church. With some hesitation, a small group of investigative reporters looked into reports of priests molesting children. With Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Michael Keaton, there are some great performances.
fantastic film was totally engrossed from start to finish
Good movie not great and certainly NOT THE BEST PICTURE.

It feels like a made-for-tv movie. Solid all around but doesn't excel anywhere.
Great film. I wasn't expecting to enjoy it as much as I did. It draws you in and keeps you involved.
A powerful film which benefits from superbly written screenplay, great acting, and masterful direction. Despite the immensely talented ensemble, Ruffalo stands out. Effectively treats a sensitive subject matter without the gratuitous bombast that generally characterizes Hollywood. Definitely a film for the ages.
No wonder the Oscars had their SPOTLIGHT on this film.
Brilliant all around!
Just a necessary movie. To see and to exist. Its also a documentary of how the press has an important role in our world.
This was a spectacular dramatization of the Catholic Church scandal, that ruined the lives of countless children, and shattered the faith of Catholics.  I mean these fuckers got away with this for decades.  As if rational people need anymore ammunition as to why religion being treated differently, given special favors within our laws.  This stake should have destroyed Catholics, but then slavery didn't destroy christians, so...
This powers the importance of information, it's simple and well done, I admired the investigative team dedication and determination, this is an important movie to watch anytime you think you're losing faith, this art honors journalism.. as a Pulitzer prize would do, and even more.
this movie was awesome, I'm glad it won the oscar for best movie. I recommend it to everyone
When journalists investigate the crimes and tell everybody the truth.
A film that  truly excels in all frontiers which is truly heartwarming and inspiring as well as gritty.
Esta pelicula fue interesante. 
Batman, el Chapo, y un grupo de periodistas investigan el que se volveria el escandalo mas importante de nuestros tiempos: El abuso sexuald e sacerdotes a menores de edad. Quizas lo mas triste de la historia, aparte de los testimonios desgarradores, es la sociedad misma, tratando de racionalizar y hacer de lado el abuso sistematico, simplemente porque es su religion, y ven a la organizacion como una especie de monolito social, que debe ser mantenido impecable e inalcanzable a toda critica. 

...pero lo que realmente me entristecio, fue el razonamiento que dio un sacerdote: "No sentia placer manoseando esos niños, asi que no era violacion" ._.X
At times the names are confusing but that doesn't render the whole movie hard to comprehend as it has a cohesive storyline which is easy for its viewers to understand.
Although the question and criticism that the film brings is very important, the way the story is told, it is very common if the script was not good, most of the public would sleep in the middle of the film has no soundtrack, no It has photo or any twist of the director, is a common film, with medians performances for good, and a good and interesting script, as the big bet brings the universe of financial market Spotlight brings the world of investigative journalism market and is an intriguing movie.

Best 20I6 movie? Oscar is slutty.
Really good movie; but I feel reviews for movies of this subject matter will always get better reviews than the movie deserves . Ehhhh it probably almost deserves those great ratings . Best picture maybe not.
Amazingly well-acted and filmed.
Exceptional drama that digs into a tragic scandal with grace and passion and brings us face-to-face with harsh realities in an very riveting way.
Riveting. Disturbing. Frightening. Beautifully acted and easily one the top movies in its genre. Should be viewed by everyone, but especially aspiring journalists.
"If it takes a village to raise a child, it take a village to abuse one."
Good investigative film. Worth watching though not more than once ...
it was good but they severley misused Mark rufalo and micheal keaton
Deeply sad but such a good flick.
A well-balanced real-life drama on what happened before the first huge exposé of the Catholic Church's major scandal, this is a must watch for fellow Catholics around the globe. It is amazing how the Boston reporters managed to prepare their report under wrap of secrecy in 2001, and maintained their focus even when the need to report on the 9/11 attack nearly eclipsed the significance of their reporting.

And before you try to dismiss this film as anti-Catholic, L'Osservatore Romano (the official Vatican newspaper) has officially endorsed this film as factual and not an anti-Catholic one as many had feared. So please, watch it.
My favorite film of 2015.
Good but Rufallo makes it. Infinitely polar bear is a must too. Mad men guy is good too he can perform on the big screen.
Spotlight should have been a documentary because it does not play like your typical film. There is so much exposition; and that's about it. It's a film that explains how the Catholic church got away with abuse. There are no real characters in this movie. It is well acted, but I don't know anything more about who these people are other then what they tell us about where to look next, who to check out, etc. The subject matter is interesting, but engaging it definitely is not. It's a bore.
Avoided seeing because thought the subject would just bee too much, but the story is really about the reporting/reporters more than the abuse. An excellent film start to finish.
Winner of the Best Picture 2015, Spotlight is a meaningful and well-crafted movie centered on the work of four reporters in uncovering one of the biggest scandals of the 21st century - child abuse of more than 100 priests over the last few decades, under challenges brought by the Church and the world's shifted attention due to the 911 attacks. Based on a true story about the Boston Globe's Spotlight team, the film manages to place real-life events as first priority and supports the narration with an incredible cast and well-timed score. It manages to balance all the aspects and delivers the desired effect - arousing the audience's admiration to the endeavors of reporters and public media.

People talked about Spotlight as a very well casted movie, and you would sure acknowledge that fact when you watch it. Mark Ruffalo and Richard McAdams are the ones I love the most. They showed that they know the role and has all it takes to act. But more importantly the director did not take their acting prowess for granted, as he refuses to put all of the lead characters in front of the narration. Besides, at the end of the movie its all about ordinary people shocked by the headlines on Boston Globe and phone calls coming in successively in the Boston Globe's headquaters, while all the "heroes" are all just standing there musing at the scene, deeply affected by the fruition of their hard work. Even though the characters are progressively developing throughout the film, it is left for the viewers themselves to give applause to the Spotlight team, rather than having onscreen characters to clap for them. The control of the film is laudable, as it focuses on the right things so to not mess up the tone and feel, and that is what I believe to be its key to critical success.

I might not be a huge fan for these types of movies, but I do felt a lot upon viewing this Best Picture winner. Some films are made to procure the audience with a indepth understanding of our society, and here in Spotlight, we learn that sometimes the law is vulnerable to greater forces that are not often noticed by the common people yet can do whatever unjust things they want, and that is when the media as to intervene. We honor the Spotlight team for their work in 2002 and all the other reporters that might not shine as brightly as they did, but are still furtively doing their job in maintaining a fair, transparent society. This movie is a clear Oscar-bait, and at the end of the day it is truly a meaningful cinematic experience to stick with at bed.

Rating: 8/10
The movie deserves an Oscar just for the story with it being told right -oh wait it received two already (Best Picture & "original story")
Clearly one of the best movies of the year. A gripping true story,a rich cast,and top notch performances. But if I'm going to be honest,there were moments where I was board but they're were rather small moments
The story is interesting, but it is nothing new. Not to say that the story is not worth telling, or that it is not important. It is just that it seems the film came out a little late, which is ironic because the film is about a story that came out a little late. I feel the impact that the film could have had is missed by it being released now. It is a good film, but it is a safe film at the point. Nothing controversial or provocative.
When I sat down in my seat for my final flight to get to Belgium, I was greeted by the familiar screen in front of me that provides a sizable selection of movies for the flight over the Atlantic Ocean. When I saw the Academy Award-winning movie Spotlight on that list, I was ecstatic to say the least. So, I watched the film for the first time amidst the loud sound of the jet engines behind me. Admittedly, as a Catholic, I was a little nervous about the way this movie would portray the Church that I'm a part of. However, after watching Spotlight, I eventually realized that the film's willingness and ability to handle a topic that other filmmakers would consider taboo was one of its biggest strengths. Spotlight benefits from handling its subject material skillfully, conveying the events that it documents objectively, fully, and without offending anyone. This might suggest that the film borders on the line of a documentary rather than a drama, since a documentary is the safest way to convey facts without bias. This is far from the case, as a very real drama results from director Tom McCarthy's ability to handle the story. And everything about this drama is perfect, and that starts with the acting. Everything good about this movie owes something to the incredibly talented ensemble cast used to portray the real-life reporters of the Boston Globe. Michael Keaton is golden in the role of Walter Robinson, and he does a superb job in conveying the man's devotion to finding the truth and to publish the story. Rachel McAdams also stood out as Sacha Pfeiffer, an at-times emotionally conflicted reporter on the Spotlight team who shares in her bosses devotion to discovering the truth. However, Mark Ruffalo proves that HE is the star in this movie through his awe-inspiring performance as Mike Rezendes. Ruffalo takes command of his role with gusto and passion that he welds into every scene he is in. Even though I'm happy with DiCaprio's reception of the Best Actor Oscar, I would've been equally proud to see Ruffalo take the award, because he definitely earned it. And one of the amazing things about these performances is the way the writing and screenplay develops their characters, without taking focus away from the story at hand. Which is another thing the movie excels at: focus. Every little bit of dialogue, every scene, and every part of the screenplay adds to the characters or drama, but never takes away from the plot. In summary, Spotlight unfortunately reminds audiences of a poor time in the Catholic Church's history. But with that aside, it is an incredible showcase of acting talent and storytelling, one that I hope directors will be able to emulate in the future.
such a good film great acting and very eye opening. the story could not have been told any better then the film portrayed it and they did it with class and integrity. really liked the film definitely would recommend this film.
This movie takes you by the collar and drags you through a pit of mud--forcing you to see the ugly truth. Tom McCarthy the director of spotlight chooses to tell this story with an air of authenticity--nothing is sensationalised. The audience is equally invested in the telling of the decade long cover up by the end. The team of journalists are worked to their core, and gripped by their haunting discoveries. This movie much like the investigation itself conducted in 2001 by the Boston Globe is uncomfortable-- to say the least. It questions an institution that lies at the very core of our society today. Describing this discovery as shocking is a gross understatement--it is more of a betrayal. The movie is very much a crescendo as the clues come together and the audience along with the team of journalists ( Mark Rezendes, Robby, Sacha Pfeiffer, and Matt Carroll) begin to piece together a puzzle hidden in secrecy and fear. The harrowing accounts of victims leave us indignant, hurt, and disbelieving-- as they look into the eyes of their interviewers and say "how do you say no to god." reminding us of the maliciousness of the "system" as Marty Baron keeps stressing. 

The actors in this movie do a wonderful job with mimicking the emotions that grip the audience as they too realize the horrific facts. This resulting in Mark Ruffalo's a.k.a Mark Resendez' breaking point. A melt down is only necessary in this film---it's what gives it emotion leading the audience to feel something. every performance throughout the movie whether it be a major or minor character screams for empathy. Spotlight has been nominated for 6 academy awards of which three are dedicated solely to the cast. Each journalist plays their own role and brings a unique perspective for the story. Mark Resendez makes his mark as the eager, truth driven writer desperate to tell the story that has consumed his life. Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) comes off as the warm interviewer who is able to reach out to the victims willing to share their horrific experiences; and then Matt Carroll( Brian D'arcy James)--  the family man who finds out that he lives only blocks away from an identified child molester. This film is very much influenced by the idea of racing against time--this in terms of getting the story published and written before any other newspaper, while also exposing corrupt priests as quickly as possible. Finally Robby (Michael Keaton) also plays into the concept of time by making the team wait until they can deliver the story right. He is the fearless leader and editor of the group serving as a glue of sorts--keeping the unique personalities of the team on the same page, (he also stars in Birdman--another terrific role).

There is one quote that stands out very sharply in this film, that being "If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one" the story went down in history because of its sheer size and elaborate scheme to keep victims silent. While spotlight and the investigation itself aren't an attack on the catholic church per say they are a tribute to the corrupt nature of any institution--even those we deem holy. It builds a deep appreciation for journalists without putting them on pedestals in fact acknowledging their flaws--by repeatedly pointing out that the boston globe had ignored previous allegations of sexual abuse by priests. While this fact-based thriller is a slap in the face it is definitely a must see.

Grade:A
Spotlight handles a very serious topic/case and makes it an appealing movie for everyone.
Michael Keaton on the rebound, but completely overshadowed by incredible performances by Mr. Ruffalo and Mrs. McAdams.  I learned, I felt.  Good shit.
Arguably worthy of truly deserving its 2015 Best Picture definitive label as it's a mesmerizing triumph on how the cinema done prolific storytelling and how much effort was put into it in the screenplay and the performances by the excellent cast through a seemingly complex web being kept in line during the whole process. (A)

(Full review TBD)
Spotlight is a film that will simply floor you. Everything from the directing, acting, cinematography, script, etc etc is just about perfect. This is truly one of the best ensemble casts I've ever seen in film. Everyone in this movie gave an Oscar worthy peformance. This movie also doesn't delve into the clichÃ©s that films like this typically do. If you can handle the subject matter I higly recommend Spotlight. Just be prepared for an emotional roller-coaster that will make you angry and disgusted, yet inspired
A compelling story made into a great movie, perfectly illustrating the ins and outs of hardcore journalism.
Spotlight is an engaging true story that strings the viewer along in the investigation it's great ensemble cast in neck deep in. I'm not sure I would deem this film the best of the year, but it's certainly in the top five as it tells a story worth being told.
From an outsiders point of view - a very good representation of the story. Makes the topic interesting for the viewer while also getting through all of the necessary facts needed to understand. Found myself awake throughout the entirety of the film and thoroughly enjoyed the end result.
A great movie that dives into an incredible moment in history. With great acting by the entire cast and an incredibly believable set of actors, the story drags someone into it. A movie that will leave you in awe as it rolls the credits.
Wow ! Was hanging on by every word! Amazing movie! Great to see the emotions & realism.
"Spotlight" is the compelling story of the Pulitzer prize-winning team of Boston Globe journalists, who early in 2002, lifted the lid on a clerical abuse epidemic in the Boston archdiocese.
Nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture  8/10 Rev 327
Revealed one case... can safe the world
Fantastic film on a horrible subject.
Spotlight hauntingly captures its audience with a story that is still a sensitive yet underrated topic today.
Ersatz 'All The President's Men'. Worthy if a little hollow.  Ruffalo and Schrieber   pretty hammy playing things up as Robards and Hoffman but Keaton a revelation in a central character role and Rachel Macadams is becoming the most interesting actor around. Tucci is Tucci....always worth the ticket. Good not great,
d
My name is Brian Galyean...I was SO thrilled that this movie was written and told...even winning the Oscar for best film last year!!! WONDERFUL!!! I am a survivor of sexual abuse within the catholic church. I was abused by 3 priests when I was 13....Msgr James J Reilly, and two Jesuits, Fr Pat Koch, and Fr Ben Smiley..all of Dallas...I won my lawsuit against all 3 and it felt amazing to NO LONGER BE SILENT!!!! 30 years I was quiet and lived a lie to my family and friends...During my lawsuit I learned how many kids before be who committed suicide because they were quiet...lived in fear...I now made a foundation called BE LOUD which helps kids feel confident and to speak up....Much love to all of you who worked on this film...THANK YOU for putting the story out there! :) xoxox
You don't have to be a news junky to fall head-over-heels in love with "Spotlight,"...but it helps.
Serious and harrowing, Spotlight is a film where you could be forgiven for thinking not a lot is happening, and yet just like the material it covers, you scratch the surface and you find something a lot deeper. Voted best picture of the last year, it's an essential watch, a very brave piece of film making, and perhaps the best performance I've seen from Mark Ruffalo. 

The thing that sticks with me even now, as I write while the credits roll is the final shot of the movie,  no not of Michael Keaton, but the list. Watch Spotlight and you will see just what I mean.

Spotlight is controversial, brave and thought provoking. While it may not be my favourite film of 2015, I can see why it won best picture, it is pushing boundaries and showing things most others wouldn't touch. Surely just like reporting, that is what cinema is all about.
Lo mejor de la película pasó fuera de cámaras. El Oscar le amargó la noche al Vaticano, fuera de eso, no es la novena maravilla que quieren hacernos creer.
Without a shadow of a doubt, this is the best movie of 2015, astonishing directing and acting makes this movie a masterpiece, despite the fact is dealing with a really serious subject that would have been boring for some audiences  the director and the writers manage themselves to bring an excelent pacing keeping it interesting with no slow moments. they capture the  best of this actors with charismatic portrayals and amazing chemistry between them. Mark Ruffalo once again proves that He is worthy of an Academy Award, I felt  He was the best of the cast, always bringing layers on whatever part he is in. 5/5 to this amazing movie, that took the courage to manage this sensitive matter.
www.milsteadonmovies.co.uk
This movie is really well done! Everything was top notch.  They definitely do not lionize the journalists in this movie.
Great story and a thrill to watch. But, where is the adversary, the resistance? It´s there but it´s too well hidden between the lines. And why is Ruffalo doing tooo much out of his role, it really dont feel real.
This was a good movie. I think I would have liked to see more of the victims issues, and the systemic issues of the Catholic Church brought to to forefront, and why the Boston Globe sat in the info they had for at least 5 years before actually getting the news out there. Not sure this why this was an Oscar winner.
Plane movie #5: Well-acted and crafted.
A true story that you simply just have to watch.
Damn good movie from acting to script to editing, but more than that-its an important film to watch. As a Catholic I can say I was horrified to find out what was going on with pedophiles disguised as priests in the Catholic community. I was even more horrified when I saw a documentary about how the church knew and protected monsters versus victims. Like Richard Snipes said its the institution not Catholicism itself that caused this mess. I would like to see more done from the pope but I believe we are headed in the right direction. You should watch this if your Catholic but even if you're not because this film highlights the worst of our rape society today. This is part of the discussion that is so relevant and what we need to have more of today. Also loved how movies puts the spotlight (lol) on the bravery and under-appreciated work of many journalists. Bravo!
Excellent movie. Superb cast. Didn't lose my attention one time.
this made me think of church that need to rectify there things and it made me electrified
Spotlight is directed by Tom McCarthy, and stars Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, Billy Crudup, and many more. The film is about several scandals surrounding Catholic priests, who have molested children within the Church. From the very first seen, audiences can feel the sadness and quietness of the community, and how it reflects the world's initial reaction to this. From the incredible performances from a powerhouse cast, brilliant direction, and superb writing Spotlight is a terrific motion picture. Every bit of screen time matters, and the dramatic elements draw you into the film. It was highly deserving of best picture(at the Oscars), and is a must see.
Puede resultar un poco pesado seguir la trama al principio, pero a medida que  las sólidas actuaciones del reparto empiezan a contagiarle a uno la sed de dar a conocer una verdad indignante, la película cobra una fuerza inusual que aporta mucho que reflexionar al espectador.
Spotlight succeeds due to its riveting story and the performances of its actors, all carefully crafted in one of the best written and directed film in 2015 by Tom McCarthy, shining light on a subject people need to know about.
I was gripped by this film. Absolutely fascinating, disturbing and satisfying.
Fabulous film, destined to be my No. 1 of 2016. Old-fashioned procedural thriller on a worthy topic of the church's shame. Let's not get waylaid by backstory or romantic threads, lets just focus on the drama. Wow how refreshing. Let's have an A' list cast work together, rather than trying to out-act one another - doubly refreshing. Let's basically plug away with the investigation, and never dumb it down or over-emotionalise it for the audience. A superb movie.

A worthy Oscar winner, who would have thought it.
This film opens a well known can of worms that has been covered up but the Catholic Churches for decades. Great work by the Boston Globe 'Spotlight' team. You allowed victim's voices to heard.
Excellent job by director Tom McCarthy and the ensemble of top notch actors.  They portray the real life efforts of truly dedicated journalist in search for the truth, even if it means fighting a powerful institution.
/B/ Very intriguing and still hard to believe story. The movie loses some points because there really is no connection that the audience can make with the main characters. The reporters are really just used as a medium to tell the story.
Sad but true.  Compelling look at what went on. Riveting.
Aside from a slow beginning and one too many tracking shots for comfort, Spotlight is an exceptionally well-written and acted retelling of the yearlong investigation into the Roman Catholic Church's systemic coverup of child abuse.
One of the best films I have ever seen, along with 12 angry men, cool hand Luke, The ninth configuration, just great.
This was definitely an eye-opening story. There is a great wealth of information here, not only about this abuse of power in the Catholic Church, but also the process for gathering information before it is ever presented to the public.
Another great movie! Very sad that this was based on a true story. How I wish it were made up.
Excellent movie, powerful story and acting
the story is good, but is the new definition of the word boring.
Superbe enquete sur des faits reels concernant la pedophilie de pretres catholiques. 6 nominations aux Oscars.
Great acting and careful story telling of (still) an important topic.  The only thing that may have been made even clearer is the communal pressure these journalists had to feel when taking on the Catholic Church.
Review:
Although I found the subject matter touching and pretty upsetting at times, and all of the actors put in a great performance, from an entertainment point of view, it seemed more like a documentary than a cinematic extravaganza, and I really wanted to see the priest's get punished for all of there nasty acts. I'm glad that the director used top actors to portray such a touching story, about a group of journalist, who work for the Boston Globe, and go to extreme lengths to undercover the terrible true story about priest who rape young kids. The fact that the important documents were hidden away, was truly disgusting, and the poor victims, who were mostly damaged for life, also touched me. You do have to be in the right mood to watch this film because it is very one toned and it is one of those movies that will leave you feeling angry and pretty emotional. As for the performances, all of the actors gave this delicate subject, there all, and it shows journalist in a different light, by proving that they also can do good without uncovering a scoop, just for profit. Personally, I don't think that it's one of those films that you can watch time and time again but it's still a well made movie, which brings an untold story to light. Enjoyable!

Round-Up:
I'm not sure that this film deserved a Best Picture Academy Award, especially with Mad Max and the Revenant in the same category but you can't fault the film for emotion, and the script is well written. Personally I don't think that it needed to be 2 hours long and I did find some of the scenes repetitive but with that aside, it's still one to watch and it's great to see Keaton back on top form. The movie was directed and written by Tom McCarthy, 49, who also brought you the Station Agent, The Visitor, Win Win and the disappointing, the Cobbler, so this movie was a complete change of directed for the actor/director, who recently starred in Pixels with Adam Sandler. He was brave to make a movie about a subject matter which has been kept under the radar for some time, and I'm sure that there are still people out there that won't accept the truth but I personally think that there was room for Tom to go deeper, from the punishment perspective. Its still a decent film which deserved recognition but I did see better films in 2015/2016.

Budget: $20million
Worldwide Gross: $88.3million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their biography/history/dramas starring Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Billy Crudup, Elena Wohl and Brian D'Arcy James. 6/10
Excellent true story about the Boston Globe's investigation of the sex abuse scandal among Catholic priests.
'Spotlight' appropriately honours the commitment and success of investigative journalism but lacked the showings of heated confrontation between the press and the Catholic Church which would have helped spice up the film's flat approach.
Meh! It was OK. The topic was interesting, the cast was great, but I thought it was about 30 mins too long. The dialogue is OK, but it was REALLY interesting to see how far & wide the cover up (and the incidences) reached. Didn't hate it, but didn't love it. It was OK. I confess, it lost me at times....
Powerful stuff.  Great performances.  Recommended.
Que filme foda....todos católicos deveriam assistir esse filme. Ia ser de muita utilidade para dar uma visão diferente da igreja que estão acostumados.
Muy buena pelicula, una gran historia y con grandes actuaciones, en verdad que me encanto como fue contada y el tema a tratar muy polemico
Brilliantly acted, directed, shot and cut, this is a top-notch film.
A good film but this was just a rehash of All the President's Men using a different topic. Resistance to publishing a controversial story is basically all this film is about. Fairly well made but not wildly emotionally involving. Just a plain facts based film. Even if 2015 was a poor year for films, there were far more worthy winners of best picture.
Really can't see the Oscar for best picture here....
A brilliant film following the investigative journalism carried out by the Boston Globe's spotlight team to uncover a cover-up by the Catholic Church.  Most films of this nature can go one of 2 ways, they either present us with scenes of tremendous heart break to pull at the heart strings of the audience or it can be a very dry, slow paced investigative feature full of cliches (usually at some point the lead investigator would be fired for their maverick actions and then save the day in their own time).  Luckily this is neither, the film treats it's audience with respect and intelligence.  The writing and the performances pull you into the investigation and keeps you hooked at every turn and setback as this small group of journalists fight to reveal the truth.  The cast is spot on and no actor hogs the limelight, each performance compliments the others in the film.  Well worth seeing.
I had high hopes for this movie, but it bored the gourd outta me!
Talented indie-filmmaker Tom McCarthy (The visitor, Win/Win) anchors a remarkable cast through an even more remarkable -- and not in a good way --  true story. "Spotlight", is simply the most important film of 2015.
"Spotlight" deals with its serious subject matter with sensitivity and precision by focusing on the facts and trueness of its real life story that pleases the audience with fascination.
Spotlight is a fantastic ensemble film that tells the deeply depressing story of the Boston Globe uncovering years of sexual abuse by Catholic priests in Boston and the subsequent cover ups by the church and local community. It is an important film that shines a light on a topic that is difficult to examine for many reasons. The film's plot moves along at a brisk rate and is equal parts fascinating and depressing. The acting is spot-on with great performances by all involved and the direction is great. All in all it is a film that is both worthy of the praise and attention it received.
A movie with a very strong message! A must see for grown-ups if you're interested in battles against social crime
Spotlight is basically a cinematic recreation of The Globe's attack on the Catholic Church on the grounds of the many child molestations and even child killings committed by priests.  That's the movie in a nutshell.  It's the crew of The Globe known as Spotlight going around uncovering this mystery that the Catholic Church had kept under wraps for so long to publish their incriminating article to bring it all to light.
If that is your kind of movie you should enjoy it, but if not than this isn't for you.  These real event inspired movies are a mixed bag for me.  Sometimes I find the story quite interesting, while other times I find myself extremely bored.  Thankfully, the former proves true for Spotlight.
I found the story and how it all played out intriguing.  The cast was also great as was the acting.  Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton especially were amazing.  I've always been a fan of Ruffalo and have like every movie I've seen him in and he did not disappoint here either.
Overall, Spotlight is a masterful film.  It's not for everyone, but for what it was trying to do it delivered it flawlessly.  I did not know much of how the real event played out so I don't know how accurate this is, but for a movie it worked fine.  Did it deserve to win best picture? I don't know, but it's a great movie nonetheless.
Excellence in journalism and the very best of relatable acting collide in Spotlight, an extended yet engrossing examination of a news team's search for the truth.

Spotlight takes place in Boston, Massachusetts and recounts the revelations surrounding the systematic child abuse of Catholic Church priests in 2001. The titular branch of The Boston Globe handled the big news story over many painstaking months, which was comprised of Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) and Matt Carrol (Brian d'Arcy James) along with the support of editors Martin Baron (Live Schreiber) and Ben Bradlee Jr (John Slattery). Their combined efforts uncovered a widespread and shameful level of paedophilia that went by seemingly unnoticed by both the law and those who attended the church. Every last detail from the original story has been packaged and composited into the film, emphasising the amount of work and difficulty the team went through. The narrative flashes between the different characters and their individual efforts in the story;  the events are relatively complex, but as the investigation progresses onwards, you'll find yourself invested as more and more drastic measures and facts come to light.

With a realistic setting locked down, the characterisation has been designed to slot into it seamlessly. The members of Spotlight may not be especially varied, but they all share a common determination and camaraderie which makes the audience root for them. Their reactions to the revelations are all very natural, but of all the main characters, I think Mark Ruffalo has the most emotion to convey and he gets it all across superbly, particularly the sheer frustration of how such widespread corruption went by unchecked for decades. The film is never overzealous with the way it presents the characters; they're all common everyday people who happen to be on the cusp of something immense. The emotions conveyed here are all fully realised and feasible with no additional side stories getting in the way of the plot. Even the side characters, such as the members of law who support the investigation are well acted, not to mention the victims of abuse who powerfully convey the trauma from their childhoods. It's all incredibly authentic, making the film's portrayal of the investigation even more detailed and memorable.

Spotlight is a truly mesmerising and often shocking account on one of the biggest scandals ever to be uncovered by journalistic investigation. The plot is intent and unwavering in the way it presents its story and the characters are both well portrayed and relatable. If you happen to be involved in the profession of journalism, it's an absolute must see; for everyone else it's simply another fantastically well-made drama based on a true story.
I was gutted to have missed this at its original UK release back in January, especially when it received some attention at this year's Academy Awards winning two oscars, Best Picture and Best Screenplay, and nominated for four others I really wanted to see this. So, a bit of a throwback Thursday I fortunately managed to catch a silver screening at my local. 

I knew this film was going to be good but didn't know it was going to be that good. The film is about the Spotlight journalists writing for the Boston Globe at the turn of the millennium, before, and after 9/11. A tight team of thorough investigators that chase controversy and when new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) takes the helm, he politely, yet assertively tasks the team to do a follow up story on the Catholic child molestation scandal that seems to be swept under the rug. 

It's a great portrayal of corruption and how it seeps into everywhere, especially where some can make a gain and how a whole population can turn a blind eye and pretend nothing is happening. It displays social responsibility, honesty, guilt and torment as you follow the paper trail spanning what I think is two years long. 

Tom McCarthy directs and does an amazing job of recreating a quiet monster, a battle of office forces that reminded me of Michael Mann's The Insider (1999) and Alan J. Pakula's All The Presidents Men. (1976) I loved McCarthy film, The Visitor (2007) with Richards Jenkins, who I think provides a voice for this film, and McCarthy gives that same gracefulness, realism and subtly in his filmmaking. 

It's an incredible cast with Michael Keaton at the lead, who, spent time with the real Walter Robinson and researched him prior to meeting him. Walter Robinson reporting on several occasions that Keaton does a true and scary account of himself; which is a shame for the general audience such as myself because most of us don't know how Walter 'Robby' Robinson behaves so it's difficult to judge Keaton's acting. It's good nonetheless. 

You can see why Mark Ruffalo got Oscar nominated for his role as abrasive, passionate and frustrated Mike Rezendes, but I can now also understand why the Oscar went to Mark Rylance for Bridge of Spies. That awkward moment when your first name is called at the awards but it's the other Mark. Still, Ruffalo gives a great performance and deserves all the credit, and pizza. 

Not sure about Rachel McAdams; she's does great, don't get me wrong but I didn't think it was worthy of the Oscar nomination unlike Ruffalo's. Tony Stark's Dad, John Slattery and Stanley Tucci play great charismatic parts as does CSI's Paul Guilfoyle and Watchman, Dr. Manhattan Eric Crudup. Liev Schreiber has always been one of my favourite co-stars and he quietly makes his presence known even among all the drama and shouting. He almost sounds like Dustin Hoffman. 

The film is a superb testament to good, honest reporting and shows us that truth and power is controlled by the people sitting on high and depends solely on how good and true those people are if something is to be done. The meek will inherit the Earth. I can see fans of Money Ball and The Big Short taking to this film greatly, films about people who take on the system and win, a true 'David and Goliath' of a story. 

Running Time: 9
The Cast: 10
Performance: 10
Direction: 9
Story: 10
Script: 9
Creativity: 9
Soundtrack: 8
Job Description: 10
The Extra Bonus Points: 10 for a brilliant masterpiece, great storytelling and a superb cast performance. 

94% 9/10

Twitter: SpoilerAlertRV
In my opinion this is one of the best drama movies ever made. You follow the Golden Globe reporters as they uncover an unspeakable truth about the most trusted form of beliefs. Spotlight was able to tell an unbelievable story, while still keeping the truth as the main subject. You are able to feel for every character within the first few minutes of the film. Spotlight is definitely a Fresh movie.
GREAT film!  A definite must see!
It's an incredible story and an incredible movie.  Not many movies can do this, and I don't think one has since I first watched "The Departed," but this movie held my attention from start to finish.  I can see now why this won an Academy Award in 2015.
S'il vous reste encore un minimum de foi en l'église catholique, ce film va l'anéantir :)
Fantastic cast! I watched this movie some days before Oscar and I was sure that it would have won best movie award! I loved screenplay by Coen's!
This is a hard film to rate for me. Because I thought the acting was amazing and the story was very interesting! But, I did find a lot of this film very booooorrrrriiiiinnnnggggg.  So overall I can only rate it good.
Socially important film but it's kind of a chore to get through.
Great movie, great acting. Hits home having lived in Boston for so many years. Def have no interest in going to church after this!
This is a tough one, folks. By all accounts, this should be a great film. The casting is solid, the story is well directed, the premise is a compelling one, and the respect for the events it was based on is very admirable. Unfortunately, what it achieves in attention to detail and realism it loses in any creative spark. There was no narrative thrust; just scenes playing out in a particular order without any true emotion guiding them. This can potentially alienate the viewers as they won't have anyone to relate to and follow throughout the movie. The only actor who truly stands out here, and whom audiences may find relatable, is Mark Ruffalo as Michael Rezendes, who brings a much needed passion to the role. On one hand, perhaps if the other reporters were better defined characters or if the individual victims were given more attention, there'd be some emotional crutch to latch onto. On the other hand, this could have come across as focusing too on the wrong people with the reporters or becoming too exploitive with the victims. This is not a bad film by any means. However, there's certainly a missed opportunity here and at over two hours, viewers will certainly feel its length.
A brave, interesting and thoughtful drama. Could not look away, it had me from the first minute.
Spotlight is a Masterpiece. Based on a true and factual story of a team of investigative journalists from The Boston Globe who exposed the Catholic Church's cover up of clergy pedophilia that shocked the city, the nation, and the world, the compelling and brilliant screenplay is sublime, yet gripping. Combined with excellent directing, crisp editing and a stellar cast, it's no wonder that Spotlight bagged the Academy Award for Best Picture.  A refreshing change from the CGI steroid charged films. A fitting tribute to journalists around the world who take so much personal and professional risks to speak truth to institutional power. A MUST WATCH.
A Masterpiece! Based on a true story of a team of investigative journalists from The Boston Globe who exposed the cover-up by the Catholic Church of the rampant pedophilia that shocked the city, nation and the world, the brilliant screenplay keeps you at the edge of your seats. This well crafted story is the work of sublime genius, and is a well-deserved tribute to journalists who dare to tell the truth. Even without CGI gimmicks or car chases, the story is intense and gripping. Thanks to great direction and a stellar cast, it's no wonder this film was awarded Best Picture at the Academy Awards. A MUST WATCH.
That's why my son isn't going to be religious ....
Pretty powerful, well told story with a high profile cast working at their best.
Very predictable, but still engaging movie that proved the only way to convince the masses of something is by putting it in the place the masses listen to
3.5/5 If you liked All the President's Men, you'll probably like this.  I didn't think it was anything amazing or original though, it was pretty straightforward, everything as you would expect.  My biggest issue is the score/music.  Its terrible and nearly ruins the movie for me.  This lame repetitive piano tune with some cheesy 80s-ish music mixed in from time to time.  Awful.  Other than that this is worth seeing.  Its just not "best picture" good, IMO.
Brilliantly executed. When one thinks about it calmly, the story is a regular tale of investigative journalism. While the topic was big, the research team had most facts readily available, without any violent opposition, even sans internal opposition/treachery or any other type of drama. Yet, the movie clicks for the way it tells the story rather than the big story or even its revelation.
Solid cast, j just feel the story only touched the edge of the investigation.
For this was made the film industry. Through a excellent cast that represent a heartbreaking story, emerges to stay in movie history. Mccarthy gives us a jewel of movie and shows the importance of journalists.
Someone is right, This did win best picture,
I'm surprised of how a group of business men come up with an idea of Devoting the church, And with all the Realism and Prices of every paper based on the church, They search for priests and give people examples on why the priest forgives the men and not the children in, Overall: I love this film for all 2 hrs. and 9 mins. when on the cover of the DVD when my mother brought it say 1 hr. and 35 min. It feels a lot shorter for some reason because i payed attention to this movie as far as possible and try not to get bored because i wasn't, Bad Movies are Bad But This is one of the movies that brightened my day.

Score: 9.5/10
Spotlight is the kind of brutally honest film that truly shows the best that the medium has to offer. This is not a visually impressive film that thinks it has to rely on camera tricks or visual effects to complement its story. This is not a film that has to rely on overly sentimental moments to convey this story. Outside of some very specific scenes, this is not a film that finds a need to devolve into explosive performances to make sure the audience knows a scene is important, and the few times it does, they feel completely natural. Rather than succumbing to these techniques of filmmaking, Tom McCarthy has crafted a subdued slow-burn drama whose unflinching honesty hits you like a punch in the gut. The ensemble here is phenomenal: Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, and Liev Schreiber all give some of the finest performances of their respective careers while being completely subtle, and ultimately transcending the film and truly embodying their characters. It's a shocking, emotional, impactful roller coaster of a film, and certainly deserving of its Best Picture award.
Anyone seen this movie?  Watched it last night.  Wow!  Powerful and disturbing.  The dangers and shortcomings of organized religion.
"Spotlight" was destined to be one of the most controversial movies of 2015, but definitely also one of the most successful. The characters in the movie are definitely the strong part and all the actors and actresses deliver strong and believable performances that are to be remembered. Mark Ruffalo, however, steals the show and he makes us all forget that he is also the man who plays a big green monster in a completely different franchise. He is surrounded by strong secondary players like Michael Keaton and Stanley Tucci who also show their great range. However, the movie falters when it comes to the entertainment value and ultimately fails in making a great and compelling story because of its constant attempt to remind people that this is still something that happens today. Don't get me wrong, I understand the importance of the message, but when a movie constantly hits you over the head with references of today's problems, it just ends up being too much and that's why I felt the urge to walk away from the movie multiple times. This is a good movie, but it could have been much better than it ended up being.
Very powerful and eye opening. Have always known about the subject, but never knew the depth of the Vatican's cover-up.
Good movie, but this is not better than "Mad Max", I love the story, the plot is good, this is how Journalism movies should be, but, Best movie?, no! i don't think so
Great....just great. Brings many injustices to light.
While not as visually stunning as the Revenant or as fun as Mad Max, I can totally see why this movie took home Best Picture. Very well done. It's crazy that Michael Keaton anchored back to back Best Pictures. He's a legend.
Another story that needed to be told. It's a sad story about corruption and cover-ups. But it's a story about how some people won't stop until the truth is told and out for everyone to see, as it should be. I'm proud that there are people in the media that seek the truth and have everyone's best interest at heart.
Extremely well told story. Easy to see how is won Best Picture this year.
This one's definitely a must-see.
?????????????????????????????
spotlight shows the actions of reporters uncovering a story that revealed the priests and their abuse of children. granted it's a good story and the movie does a great job at unveiling everything when it needs to but I didn't feel it worthy of the award it got. the directing is bland, the actors did great and the story were the only thing going for it. I get its inspired by what actually happened but stop making movies that are somewhat documentaries into something more then they actually are.
Spotlight is everything that summer blockbusters are not; a film depending solely on the story and the execution of it. Spotlight's execution of this difficult story was done with perfection.
Deeply touching movie, the topic helps...but the cast and director also work wonderfully with this classic style filming to make this story come to your door. Wonderful Mark Ruffalo
Mark Ruffalo is fantastic. The story is heartbreaking but well written to guide you through the crazy tale of the Globe finally putting together the pieces to break the story.
A brilliant expose into the opening up of the heinous acts hid by the Catholic church in Boston. It keeps you thinking long after the film about the messed up nature of what is meant to be a strong force for good.
A heart-wrenching and difficult fact to S willow for those in the Catholic religion; but truly written well. We must remember the Good surpasses the bad in all things.
Pretty good movie. But still confused on how it won more awards than The Big Short. The subject matter is very interesting but it still made me bored somehow.
A testimony of the dark side of the church.
Excellent story well acted and directed. Story-telling at its best.
the Academy needs a category for acting ensemble, the acting as group was amazing; the story riveting
"They knew and they let it happen! It could've been you, it could've been me, it could've been any of us" ~Mike Rezendes
????? ?? ??????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ???????? ????? ??? ????? ? ?????? ??? ???????!!!!!!!!
Soberbia película, de lo mejorcito que fue a los Oscars este año. Un guión excelente interpretado por unos actores que dan la talla en cada línea (ese Marc Ruffalo...), con una historia apasionante y profunda que es el eje central de toda la cinta. Cierto es que los personajes carecen de importancia frente a esta, pero eso no quiere decir que no existan y la trama principal no los transforme emocinalmente.

Una película que debería ser recordada durante años.
Deep, great ensemble.
Amazing moving. Amazing Story with a great cast. Even though I knew how this movie would end my stomach got into a tighter knot as the movie went on. Storytelling at its best
sad movie for rainy afternoons
Interesting story but I feel like I've seen better and more gripping documentaries. In short, it was boring
The story of the Spotlight team was well shot, VERY WELL ACTED (especially by Ruffalo and Adams) and well written... but it's a story we all knew.  I didn't like how it lionized the reporters.  These weren't heroes.  The victims they interviewed were the real heroes, and the movie should've concentrated more on them.  We cut out before a lot of the victims really even told their stories in full, then got to hear about it later from the Spotlight team.  I would've liked it more if we had seen the full interactions between the team and the victims and gotten to see the real-time reactions of the team to the victims' stories.  Spotlight is a good movie with a good script that handled its subject matter delicately and with taste, but it whispered when it should've screamed.
Always heard of these priest in the news, but the way this movie shows the reality of this true story is chilling. One of the best put together movies I have ever seen. Star studded and great acting, you will be compelled from beginning to the end.
Excellent acting few a strong cast makes this unmissable. Based on true accounts of catholic priests who have molesting minors and up until now have been keeping it secret. That is until an investigation is about to uncover some shocking truths
Great storytelling - Outstanding acting
Best Picture in 2015? Not in my opinion.
A great and horrifying true story with truly great acting and a fantastic cast. While not a movie you re-watch ever couple weeks, you should go back and watch it every once and a while because it is truly great.
Riviting storytelling. A must see!!
Sad that this is true, but I'm glad it got exposed.  Basically, movie is saying what took place...
'Spotlight' is a perfect movie. In its pace, in its casting, in its soundtrack... It isn't the best movie you'll ever see but it has zero flaws. Mark Ruffalo is a mesmerizing actor. I give it 2 thumbs up because I only have 2 thumbs...
This was an excellent movie, even though the subject matter was extremely depressing
Good movie. It was well preformed
powerful story, great performances
This is the type of great story telling that does a movie goers heart right.The cast is tight and near flawless.Just about as good as anything I've seen in quite a while.
Amazing! One of the best and most well acted movies I've seen in a very long time!
A worthy Oscar winning drama. The acting was superb and the story was captivating and very well told.
What a great movie but so heartbreaking that the church covers up such abuse.
Great emotional ride.  Forgot I was watching popular actors "acting".  Well worthy of best picture.
A stunning testament to the power of journalistic integrity, 2015's best picture winner earned its statue and then some. The movie is a success not for being groundbreaking, but rather telling the very serious story in the simplest way possible, telling like it is. No grimy sound effects, evil music, foreboding flashbacks or other Hollywood motifs to depict the horrors of child molestation. Just the words from the victims, plain and simple. For those unfamiliar with the story, in 2002, The Boston Globe published a shocking article implicating some 90 catholic priests of child molestation, to which the church did nothing. The piece ultimately won The Globe's Spotlight team a Pulitzer for bringing such an unspeakable secret to light. The entire cast is a revelation, particularly Mark Ruffalo and Stanley Tucci. It's not an easy story to either tell or sit through, but the conviction of these reporters and the grip to which they hold their ideals makes the experience riveting rather than grueling. Any fan of potboilers and mysteries (All the President's Men, JFK, Shattered Glass, etc.) shouldn't pass this one up due to its controversial subject matter. It's just too good.
Deserving of best picture.  Second to Star Wars as my favorite of 2015.
Heart breaking how Power can hurt others and cover it up.
Surprisingly even-handed. A good drama that's well-paced and featuring good performances from all.
One of the best movies I've seen recently! Truly a moving story and had me choked up at the end. Very well executed and great acting!
Great cast, thrilling.  Makes journalism seem like the best job in the world.
This was a very interesting movie because I actually never knew that priests would do that to kids?! But the problem I had in this movie is that I don't understand some of the things that were in the movie. Overall amazing!
Looking into files has never been this interesting. With a real issue to tackle, spotlight is able to make a very interesting and  entretaining plot. Even with the knowledge of the problematic mentioned here, spotlight succeed in showing why this problem is still a problem.
Extremely well-paced with a well-executed plot and interesting characters portrayed by great actors
I really enjoyed watching this movie. For such a sensitive subject, it was very deftly handled. Beautiful!
I have NO idea how this won Best Picture. It wouldn't have been nominated in my opinion. Kudos to Mark Ruffalo for that great scene that we saw a clip of during the Academy awards, but the rest of the movie was pretty un-interesting. Rachel McAdams didn't deserve a nomination at all.
The movie was mostly Boston Globe writers investigating their story. Hardly any drama between them and the Catholic Church.
A brilliant film, but sometimes it doesn't deliver the required sting to really drive home the message.
Excellent. The story of the abuse of children by Catholic clergy took the right line between sentiment and excess, resulting in a movie whose impact stayed long after the closing credits.
WHY WASNT THIS DONE SOONER
Spotlight story is interesting and has a good cast which performs very well, but the feeling of the story is flat.

First, they are talking about abuses to children but you feel almost the whole time that they are following the lead of any other story almost as bureaucrats. There is not much of sensitivity put into the matter.

Second, they are exposing a huge case of system "missbehavior" (to say the least) in the Catholic Church hierarchy and you see how the whole city of Boston is treating this institution with great care. Then, this movie is about showing to the world how the exposition was done and the treatment to the Catholic Church is almost as exquisite as the one that has enabled this institution to hide all this cases.

For gods sake! These people are criminals covering the crimes of even bigger criminals and it seems like we still cannot face them and tell them clearly and to their faces the horrible things they have tolerated and hidden.
Wow. I knew of some. Glad I'm not catholic
Great cast took on difficult subject matter and carried it out brilliantly! Very good movie.
Spotlight is a great movie with a fantastic cast filled with great performances. The story is simple but interesting. My only real complaint with the movie is that it feels small. The acting and the story is in focus, and for many that is more than enough. Not for me, I consider myself closer to the average viewer more than a "film nerd". I love storydriven movies with great acting just as much as the next film enthusiast, but I often need the feeling of scale to truly love a movie. Some of the minor characters are not close to as good as Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton, which becomes very obvious throughout the movie. This is a minor complaint though. All in all the movie achieved it's goal, and told it's story marvellously.
This film is breathtaking. It's not breathtaking for action sequences, CG or fantastical stories. It's breathtaking because of the acting. It's breathtaking because of the cinematography. It's breathtaking because of a real story about real journalists who had the bravery to take on one of the worlds most influential institutions. An absolutely amazing, must watch movie.
This movie hit me. I left the theater pissed off and sad. It achieved what it wanted. Objectively, one of the best movies of 2015, script, acting, cinematography and directing.
Wow. Add this to your must see list. Floored by the negligence of these deceptive institutions, yet not surprised one bit.
Probably the best movie I've seen last 24 hours, based on a true story, Kevin Costner is a serious Oscar contender here!
Clásica película seria, En Primera Plan, tiene un cast excelente con muy buena química, lo cual sumado a un gran guion,basado en una historia real sobre la investigación periodística que saco a la luz curas abusadores, se convierte en un combo clásico que hasta se llevó el Oscar a mejor película... Aunque a mi gusto tendría que haber continuado un poco mas sobre la vergonzosa figura del Cardenal Law, quien terminó jubilándose en el vaticano (aconsejo seguir la historia)
One of the best journalism movies. Very well cast and written. I admire Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber in it so much. The script is particularly worth being noted again and again.
Little slow. But somewhat interesting story
Spotlight is a well-made and heartbreaking film. The actors, Mark Ruffalo in particular, do a great job of expressing the range of emotions required for such a sensitive topic and the story, though hard to watch, is absolutely compelling. I'm not bothered that this won Best Picture.
A very good movie that everyone should see, especially Catholics. I abandoned Catholicism a long time ago, and it had nothing to do with the pedophile priest scandal, but I sure hope this type of stuff gets others thinking about the church they follow. 
The movie is well made and well acted, but it is kind of slow moving. We all know how it ends so there's no real tension here. Just frustration at all the people involved (church members, lawyers, regular people) who helped to cover it up, and refused to accept the truth for what it was. The church is a business, like any other, and it's frightening the power it holds over people. 
It's astounding how many priests were involved, and for how long it went on. And this movie is just about the Boston area. 
Just another reason to question everything, and don't accept things just because "it's what we've always done". 
All those poor abused kids. Damn.
makes you furious at the Roman Catholic Church
'Sometimes it's easy to forget that we spend most of our time stumbling around the dark.'
this is the kind of movie that makes you feel happy for making good use of your time. Brilliant story telling, brilliant acting and brilliant direction.
All have sinned, and come short of the glory of God. (Romans 3:23)

It seems probable the people with a surname McCarthy are highly not indifferent to any kind of hunting. American director Tom McCarthy, who has the same surname as a U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy, whose notions provoked a whole series of persecution of politicians in 50th, concerned with communism, well-known in history as a «witch- hunt», also arranged a «hunt» together with the collective of his new work, but this time a «priest-hunt».

The film «Spotlight» shows the story of child sexual abuse by catholic priests from the Archdiocese of Boston investigation by journalists of «The Boston Globe» newspaper.

The main task of the film lies in its name «Spotlight» - to light up facts to public. That's exactly how the column what the collective of journalists together with their new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) published the investigation in is called, provoked the immense scandal round the Catholic Church. This story really had a place in the beginning of 2000th and the prepared report brought the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for the newspaper. Some of the journalists who had taken part in the investigation joined to making of the film helping the actors to show their characters better.

But it's not worth while expecting from «Spotlight» the energetic pace braided with feelings boiling and the characters' persuasions. Superfluous runtime and sluggish process of the plot, especially the first 30 minutes, induce in audience only drowse and loss of interest. Pale colors of the editor's office and not much bright journalists' shirts only intensify this process to the Howard Shore's soothing music. Even tears and anger of victims of violence telling their stories to the finders of truth don't take off the fatigue from the quite monotonous dialogs and the characters' emotions.

The only one thing that can give a little impetus to the film is the journalist Michael Rezendes' (Mark Ruffalo) heartfelt cry to his colleagues. Actually the picture doesn't spark interest in the process of developing its events and instead of making the audience root for the «Spotlight» collective success the film only draws a spectator into slow swimming between the lines of clippings and the monotonous dialogs.

The director Tom McCarthy also acted as a journalist given the possibility to audience to learn the element of truth about modern problems of Church. But if you follow the slogan of this picture and really «read between the lines», you may ask yourself: is it right thing that the director had revealed this subject? If Tom McCarthy used material about the sins of some company, as in the Michael Mann's film «The Insider», instead of the story about sinned priests, or materials about common maniacs seducing minors, the film «Spotlight» would look only more colorless and even be more devoid of actuality yet.

The problem of the priests who really perpetrated child abuse is a heavy cross for the whole Catholic Church and rated as a mortal sin and a crime. Such actions of any kind that leave non-vanishing sign in victim's life must be punished. But you shouldn't forget that the Church consists of the same people as any other institution what all the people are also sinned and infirm in. And unfortunately none of us is insured from sins and temptations.

After watching the film a spectator may get the impression about deep viciousness of the whole Church and its hypocritical screen by God's Commandments for the sake of hatching its own interests. Each spectator can endure such a feeling that a journalist Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) felt, relied on coming some day to church, but after hearing about some clergymen twisted actions, his hope was cracked. That's why exactly this picture can do much harm to audience's faith if it's understood wrong.

You shouldn't brand the whole Church because of some stray sheep. The fact that there are a lot of murderers and maniacs in the world doesn't mean the world lost good people. The director Tom McCarthy spotlighted only the painful wound of the Church. But despite of it I'd like the audience knows and doesn't forget all good actions of clergymen, their ministration to the poor and the needy and the fact that many people got the hope and got rid of many vices thanks to priests and monks.
A great, compelling journalistic thriller in vein of All The Presidents Men.
Very eye opening and breathtaking view of the coverups and corruption with the Catholic Church and the community, just sad. Excellent movie well put together seemed as if it was a book and I just kept flipping through pages. Yes must watch
Spotlight showcased courage and perseverance to beat the unbeatable. I just hope that media nowadays is able to exert its significance and fulfill its obligations, regardless of suppression.
it was like confession, frightening
i was high when i watched this so i should watch it again i just don't want to.
Very well acted ,interested topic does not play sides ,power of journalism when it done right ,when it not bias or polarized 
ð???
A lot of good actors good script and it reveals the Catholic Church's true nature "corrupt corporation!"
This is a film not so much about the Catholic Church as it is about the journalists who exposed the Boston scandal - and it really works as such. What great casting! Perfect. Really a very intriguing watch. Totally engrossing.
Compelling story, strong performances out of all actors. This was a hard to watch at times telling of the Catholic Church scandal in the early 2000's. Mark Ruffalo's best performance.
A rather boring account of an earth shattering topic.
Slow start but worth it! Great acting!
Spotlight is definitely a must see and now one of my favorite movies. The intrigue is carried on beautifully by great actors. Rachel McAdams shows great talent once again. Mark Ruffalo plays an interesting character, even though you might get annoyed by all his mimics. The tension grows as you discover with the characters how big the story truly is.
Spotlight is a terrific film that can help make the world a better place. Everyone (of a certain age) should see this film so it can raise awareness of the disgusting acts that have taken place over, not just America, but the world. The direction is subtle but brilliant and score builds it up masterfully. The cast all give focused and complex performances that offer depth to the character they are playing. Michael Keaton continues with his revitalisation, Mark Ruffalo gives one of his best performances and Rachael McAdams has an incredibly natural likability in this film that it is difficult to take your eyes off of her. The thought that this has actually happened shakes me to me very chore and will make most viewers' stomach churn.
I can see why it won best film ð???
a very well made, well put together movie with very good acting by all
Watched this twice in the space of a few days, deserved Best Picture. Without spoiling anything, a film with a topic as sensitive as child molestation must be hard to pull off, but they do it, and they do it so well.
Truly brilliant, you might think this film must be boring and very dark but they do a great job of making it frantic and exciting. The subject matter is dealt with brilliantly not making the viewer too uncomfortable but will certainly leave you thinking about things for a while. Hands down the best film i have seen this year.
This movie is deliciously excellent and perfectly executed. It follows a team of journalists as they investigate sexual abuse within the church. It's a very intriguing story, with amazing acting, amazing writing, amazing dialogues, amazing music. Everything about this movie just works so well. The movie handles the issue of sexual abuse so respectfully and doesn't resort to cheesy or tasteless scenes. Highly worth a watch.
??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
A great true story that deserved a movie. Dry in places, the movie shows the slow unraveling of decades of the Catholic church's senior members' cover-up of child abuse by its priests. We all know where it's going before we watch it, but it still has the power to surprise and shock.
A must watch. A journalistic investigation about pedophile priests in Boston, of the same caliber as "all the president's men".
Won Oscar for best picture. There's a good argument that Ruffalo should have won best supporting actor.
Although all true, real stories, villanizing the Catholic Church is mostly on the agenda. It'd be nice to show
The good catholic priests out there. I'll still pray for the victims.
Awe-striking film that will leave you thinking about its plot and the deeper meaning for a long long time.
The drama is authentic, feels like an old 50's movie. Is a particularly rarely optimistic movie set in the midst of a huge social scandal as well as the 9/11 transitional phase.
This film packs quite a punch with its fantastic cast and ponderous pace. Still, its true star is its engrossing story - told with both dignity and humility.
Spotlight combines fine acting, excellent writing, and creative photography to handle an important subject.  This is what good film should be.
Like many who hail from the South Side of Chicago, I was born and raised Catholic.  I went to Catholic school for 14 years and, for a time, was in church every weekend for mass.  I was even an altar boy in junior high.
 
That's why any story involving a priest abusing children hits so close to home for me.  That could've been me.  That could've been a sibling or a cousin or a friend or a classmate.  Any time I hear about such a thing, it always makes me stop to realize just how fortunate I am.  I'm fortunate that I came from a good community; fortunate that I came from a stable home; fortunate that every priest or brother I've encountered in my lifetime (in school or otherwise) has been a good man.  If just one of those factors was untrue...then who knows what could've happened?
 
"Spotlight" was a tough watch for someone like me, yet it's also undeniably riveting and compelling, and I can see why it just claimed the Academy Award for Best Picture.  It deals with the team of journalists at the Boston Globe who in 2001 uncovered a massive scandal involving numerous priests who'd molested (and then some) children...and the higher-ups within the Catholic hierarchy who covered for them and, in many instances, simply transferred the offenders to different parishes.  And that's the real kicker; not only did these monsters escape punishment for their crimes, but many of them were actually put in positions TO REPEAT THEM.
 
In some ways, "Spotlight" almost works like a police procedural, as the reporters slowly begin to piece together the story and discover, to their mounting horror, it's far worse than they initially realized.  They interview former victims (these scenes are especially painful and heartbreaking).  They track down old news clippings and court documents.  They have discussions with attorneys who both represented and are currently representing victims.  And as the whole thing keeps building, it begins to have an effect on their personal lives.  One reporter can't even face going to mass with her grandmother anymore.  Another discovers that some relocated past-abusing priests may actually be residing in his neighborhood.  Still another feels incredibly guilty due to the fact that information pertaining to these crimes was actually sent to the Globe several years ago, and it was essentially ignored.
 
The ensemble cast, including Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, and Stanley Tucci, is uniformly excellent, with most of the actors getting an opportunity to shine.  Ruffalo and McAdams received Oscar nominations, but you could make a convincing argument for just about every member of the cast.  You can feel the anguish, the anger, and the guilt.  That might be another reason the film can be a challenging viewing experience; it forces the viewer to address uncomfortable questions, questions like, "How long has this sort of behavior actually been going on?" and "How could nobody realize this?" and "Couldn't somebody do something about it?" or, perhaps most damningly, "How could I have not seen this?"
 
Of course, the film makes it clear that the church did everything in its power to essentially sweep all this under the rug, and its power is vast and great.  You've no doubt heard of situations in which a person of great influence is said to be "in the pocket" of big names firms and banks; we hear this sort of thing about politicians all the time.  But what's often forgotten is that the church, or indeed religion as a whole, has incredibly deep pockets as well, and it's just as easy to get entrenched in them too.
 
I wouldn't say that I'm a religious person.  I have my beliefs, and yes, they mostly stem from my Catholic upbringing.  But over time, I began to drift away from some of the strictness associated with being a "Catholic school boy," if you will, and I'd say that's not generally abnormal.  I don't attend mass on a regular basis, and I haven't for years.  I'm not going to pretend that this is solely due to these abuse scandals--that would be taking an easy and convenient way out--but they're most certainly a factor.  It's a sickening feeling that an institution that is supposed to be holy and sacred could do such awful, disgusting things, and I could most definitely understand why a person could be put off by the notion of joining the Catholic faith.
 
I'm certainly not condemning all priests and brothers.  (As I mentioned above, I had the good fortune of having never countered any of the evil ones.)  And I'd certainly like to believe that, nowadays, the Catholic community has a better handle on this.  But "Spotlight" should serve as a reminder that, not so long ago, the number of "bad eggs" was staggeringly high, and those who were in a position to do something about it were, at best, negligent and, at worst, complicit in the wrongdoings.
 
No doubt, "Spotlight" is a difficult film.  But it's also one of the year's best.  We NEED challenging movies like this on occasion.
All the Presidents Men lite. Great cast though, and had 20-30 minutes been trimmed it could have been a lot more engaging. But considering this film's universal acclaim, and that I loved Tom McCarthy's last two films (not counting the Cobbler here) I think I'll need to revisit this one.
The story is one of the sickest true stories that may have ever happened and probably continues to happen. Even if you followed this as it happened this movie will give you details that will just add to the disgust. The acting is very good and helps you get sucked in, but mainly it is all about the story and how it unfolds. Best picture though...eh, dunno about that.
To my Catholic friends, research who your priest is. Praying for all the victims. Sick over this.
I can see why it won the Oscar for Best Picture. It was well-acted, well-written, and riveting. Some parts felt a bit slow to me, but it was interesting overall.
Gripping and mesmerizing, Spotlight shines a bright light on one of the greatest cover ups of our day. The only bad part of this film is the subject matter; you wish it wasn't true.
Wow!  This movie is an eye opener and amazing work!
Sure enough, Tom McCarthy has crafter a film that feels and look like a great documentary. The acting ensemble is great and you even sometimes forget they are actors and feel you are truly watching a special unit of journalist at work trying to expose one of the most horrendous scandals in recent history. Does the film deserves best movie of the year? No, by my standards it should have been either Mad Max or The Revenant (both absolutely terrific in their own rights). But apart from that it's a solid film, well written, perfectly photographed and choreographed needless to say. Some of the conversations and debate exposed in the film are by far the most interesting i have heard (in a film) this year. Great film undisputedly.
meh kind of late and no that well told
One of the best movies I've seen in years. Not being Catholic, I'm ashamed to admit that I was more or less ambivalent to the story when it came out. Maybe the country was so embroiled in 9/11 that I just couldn't focus anything else. What a travesty. Sadly, despite the "Spotlight", I can't help but think the situation still exists.
This movie did a good job of getting out of the way and letting the story be the story. It reminded me of my love for journalism.
Very tough movie. Greatly done.
Very interesting movie. I'd recommend it to anyone!
I loved this film!  So happy it won best picture!
Not a bad film but certainly not deserving of the accolades it has received. The cast is pretty good but all have offered superior performances in other films. Much of the dialogue felt contrived in that slightly condescending way that gives the impression the filmmaker was fearful the audience would be incapable of figuring out the obvious for themselves. The result is that dramatic elements are telegr
Magnifica, estupenda
Una prueba más que un "Óscar" ( o lo que para algunos es, un premio de la Academia) no es sinónimo de calidad o prueba contundente de que un filme es mejor que otro. Sobre "Spotlight" se debe de destacar el gran reparto que tiene y que hace un buen equipo con el director Tom McCarthy, sin embargo está muy lejos de profundizar en un tema que al parecer, por lo menos en esta cinta, continúa siendo callado por los círculos de poder. Pederastia, violaciones, abuso de poder en general es algo de lo que el filme menciona o destaca como historia principal en una narrativa sumamente plana, sencilla sin aportes , sobre todo argumentales. Estilísticamente recuerda al filme "Todos los hombres del Presidente" de Alan J. Pakula y tal vez para muchos sea un filme revelador, sin embargo no es el primero que toca estos temas, pero para ser sinceros en otros abordaron con mayor detalle lo que este deja en blanco. En fin creo que en si el premio obtenido fue darle un paliativo a un pueblo que exige la verdad completa y no truncada o censurada por intereses más allá de lo humano...
Really well made film with smart script and professional performances from all actors.  Mark Ruffaro deserved his Oscar nomination, Michael Keaton should have been nominated too as his acting was fierce yet calm.  The movie left a lot of things to think about long after it ended.  Well done.
Wow. Highly poignant, interesting and entertaining throughout. Great acting by all, Liev Schreiber and Mark Ruffalo stand out. Not a better move than "The Revenant" but understand why it won Best Picture.
Sencillamente espectacular.
A story that had to be told.
It's amazing how a film so uncinematic can be so captivating. This is bare bones cinematography, but I think that's intentional. I think McCarthy and Takayanagi wanted to put the spotlight (pun fully intended) on the actors and let them and the story carry the film. And it paid off! Spotlight is a thoroughly engaging, almost documentary-like film!
PODCAST - https://soundcloud.com/ryangunasekera/spotlight-2016

I'm watching the Showtime series 'Billions' at the moment.  In it, the key antagonist articulates clearly the argument that writing a cheque for few million, even a billion, is the much preferred option to be barred from ever trading securities again, let alone jail.  If you write a cheque, you can view as simply a cost of doing business.  It will never correct the underlying behaviour.

Sadly, that has been the reality of prosecutions in the finance world since the GFC, and it follows the sickening trend that Spotlight brings to life.  "If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one," as one of the key characters remind of us of the complicity that we all perhaps share.

Spotlight is brilliant from every corner, breathtaking performances combined with a riveting storyline, demonstrating investigative journalism at its finest.  But no one could walk out of that cinema, as I did with my Dad, and not feel sick to your core that this was a worldwide system operating, and so few have ever seen the inside of a jail cell for it.

Sure, the settlements have reached the stratosphere of billions now, but it is hard to argue that any of the underlying causes have been addressed.  And that is perhaps the deepest question for us all to address, what complicity do we share in a system capable of such evil, where leaders are not held to account and the system doesn't change?
Going to Catholic Church was almost like going to a convention for Megan's Law members
A light in the Dark

A true story told from the point of view of a gumshoe group of investigative reporters, Spotlight is a film that needed to be made, deserves to be seen, and was composed with a grace and maturity toward its subject that is hard to come by. An exploration of the child molestation scandal that rocked Boston and later the entire world, Spotlight covers an uncomfortable subject.

Good journalistic films in the vein of All the Presidents Men (though overrated) are hard to come by, and one wonders how much this has to do with Hollywood or how much it has to do with the state of journalism in America. For ounce, what the Spotlight team uncovered, though far too late, was an example of what journalism should be. Unrelenting, focused, and guided by the public interest. The film captures this and evokes the enormity, depravity, and emotion of the time. It accomplishes this through mature direction, a phenomenal ensemble cast, and intelligent dialogue. It's not always easy to watch, yet something that gains in appreciation as we confront what we don't want to.

4.5/5 Stars
Cracking, almost full marks
A perfectly acted and near-perfectly directed and scripted film that does an outstanding job of attacking the event not the institution.
Back to the basics of Cinema..Good Acting while we (the camera) observes. The "based on real life" is very believable since the protagonists don't seem as if they have super powers.
Best movie of the year. Phenomenal cast. Go see this movie immediately if you missed it.
Brilliant. A story that needs to heard by everyone.
Really powerful story.
Cool idea but way too long. Doubt I ever watch it again.
There's an interesting line by one of the characters used as a source in the ultimate expose on abuse within the Catholic Church by upwards of 90 priests throughout the decades.  This character was an ex-priest who wrote a book from his time spent inside one of the treatment centers in order to determine whether this priests could return to duty, as it were.  This character, who's only heard from telephone calls, admits to Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) that he still remains a Catholic in spite of everything, the church trying to discredit him and his findings.  He then says something that was very wise.  He says that the institution was created by men, his faith, however, is in the eternal and how they are two completely different things.  And I think that's something that's so relevant to this and the real-life people that wrote this article that exposed, and rightfully so, so many pedophile priests.  They're not going after religion itself, they're going after the institution that allowed these priests, by reassigning them to other parishes in other states, to continue to sexually abuse children.  There's also an interesting approach to this by one of the victims of this abuse, Phil Saviano, who says that the abuse isn't just physical, it's also spiritual.  These kids are taught to respect priests as being the voice of god on this earth, so you should do whatever they tell you or else it's like you're saying no to god.  And I've never actually seen that side of it until now.  Of course there's the physical and mental aspects of being sexually abused as a child by one of these priests, but I never actually thought about the spiritual aspect until watching this film.  These priests destroy these kids' faith and trust in the church to the point that they never want anything to do with it again.  And it's not like you can blame them.  You get to see, as the film tells its story, that there's a pattern these priests use to go after children that are more viable to do whatever it is they want them to do.  They come from broken, poor homes without fathers.  They're easier to be groomed or taken advantage of.  It's a completely fucked up system and the film does a great job at exposing that, in spite of all the lurid details surrounding the abuse itself.  One of the things that really struck me about this film is the fact that the story starts off 'simply' with a tale of one priest suspected of sexually molesting children being moved from parish to parish each time he was accused of it.  The more they uncover about this one priest, the more they discover about how this is actually a systemic issue where the church has actually cut some deals with the families affected by abuse in order to keep them quiet and avoiding a scandal.  The church is portrayed, essentially, as a legal mafia.  They have so much power and influence, everybody in the film is afraid to get into a legal fight with them for fear that the church will destroy them with their lawyers.  It's quite something to see.  I've never been a fan of the church, or religion for that matter, but the fact of the matter is that they really did behave like a legal mafia in order to protect their own name.  They knew there was a problem and they did nothing, they were protecting their own interests, since the catholic church brings in billions of dollars every year.  It's a business, it's not a religious institution and this film illustrates that point perfectly.  Honestly, this movie is nothing short of fantastic in how it handles its subject matter and its characters.  Because it would've been easy to lionize these reporters for what they did, like Clint Eastwood did for Chris Kyle in American Sniper, completely overlooking the fact that he was a psychopath that enjoyed killing.  But this film, thankfully, doesn't do that.  One of the film's major themes is the fact that Cardinal Law knew about this and he did nothing, he kept moving these priests from parish to parish, therefore allowing the abuse to continue.  So, obviously, fingers start to be pointed and the blame game about who was guilty of what.  But it turns out that the Boston Globe, the newspaper Spotlight works for, had information regarding at least 20 priests dating back years prior to them tackling this subject as a serious article.  So, really, they also knew and they did nothing, since they buried the information in a section of the newspaper that nobody read and failed to follow up on it.  Perhaps they're not as guilty as those that defended the priests or the church itself for keeping them in the system, but the Globe did hold some responsibility for not really making as big of an issue about it, despite having information and names for years.  Of course these people are heroes, for finally blowing this story wide open and how their story led to thousands of people, from so many different countries, coming forward with their own stories of abuse.  But it's nice to see the movie hold back on trying to create angels out of these characters, because they were also flawed in how late they finally came around to the story, even if they finally did get right in the end.  The writing of the film is fantastic, it's like a great mystery without the actual mystery, since you know that all of what they're reporting are facts.  The acting is top-notch as well, not in that typical Oscar-winning way, though Mark Ruffalo really was fantastic in the movie, but there's a certain chemistry to the cast.  Like they were an actual investigative team that has worked together for years, there's a familiarity to how they interact with each other.  Is it the best movie of the year, however, that is up to debate.  I still thought the best, or my favorite movie at least, of the year was Mad Max: Fury Road.  It was just a masterpiece from beginning to end.  This is, obviously, the more traditional Best Movie winner over Fury Road and I think that's what the Academy were going for.  This movie, again, is fantastic and I really do think it needs to be seen.  Do I think it's the best movie of 2015?  Not really, but that's my opinion and I don't hold it against anyone who thought it was.  It really is a special and important piece of work that has to be seen.  I would highly recommend this movie.
I appreciate very much the way this film portrayed the working journalists and their dogged pursuit of the truth in a story that is so important.  The film is not exciting visually or in its scripting, and I think this could have been improved somewhat without jeopardizing the great dedication to showing investigative journalism at its best.  But overall it's to the film's credit that all involved present a compelling and occasionally tense situation that uncovered the horrific crimes of abuse that pervaded the Catholic Church, and which the church tried hard to cover up for decades, to their unending shame.  In many ways, that criminal and immoral pattern remains a problem and has not been addressed in any substantial way by the church, even with the more admirable Francis now in charge.  As for the movie itself, we must applaud the filmmakers for their dedication to both telling this story and highlighting the heroic efforts of these journalists.  The need for such journalists is even greater today, and with the financial struggle of large newspapers the ability to investigate stories over months is increasingly at risk.
Credit must go to Tom Mccarthy for not only showing a wider audience the role that the press played in exposing one of the great scandals of recent history, but also managing to do it in a way which feels believable and also keeps the audience captivated the whole way through.
I would rather be one of the kids molested by the priests than watch this
A familiar story with revelations on scale that is surprising. Still wasn't enough to captivate though. Some great acting. Specially by Mark Ruffalo.
The best film of the year!!! Hard and neccesary. Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton 10/10. Winner Oscar Best Film 2016.
Spotlight is a film with suave and serious intent to portray the incidents that shocked the Catholics and Cathedrals then. Build on true story, the film succeeds reaping rich contents and sensible acting performances from all leads such as MIchael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber. Special mention to the background music which sets perfectly well with the mood of the film and syncs perfectly well throughout the film. Year 2015 witnessed a lot of  brilliant work from Great film makers across the globe but this one stood apart because it pays a tribute the folks affected world wide with the Incident with it.
Greatly deserving of the Academy's "Best Picture" award Spotlight delivers a intelligent punch to the gut full of cold hard facts overlooked by the American people that will leave you out of breath. The suspenseful investigation led by the Boston Globe's Spotlight special investigations team keeps delving deeper and deeper into a gaping hole in justice. Every time you think you have grasped the gravity of the situation the protagonists find themselves in, you're quickly proven wrong even up until the final scene if the film and the roll of the credits. This film shows a depressing story, the importance of accountability and gives new meaning to the phrase "look the other way." Featuring an All-Star cast filled with performances from Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, and Stanley Tucci your eyes will be glued to the screen for this wild ride.
Taking down corruption one fanatical cult-like institution at a time.
Sublime in every way. No more needs to be said.
Thought provoking. It's movie like this and the short that make incredible cinematography. I hope these movies shed light on social situations in our society to make us a better place to live and evolve in
A great ensemble that fleshes out both the importance of old-fashioned journalism and that, sometimes, you really should listen to that outsider who can see your inherent system for what it is. (See Liev Schreiber's character here.)
A strong film, on the matter of the crisis of the Catholic churches in the United States and all around the world. Very strong cast, very strong script. Best film in my list of 2015. Required to see, absolutely! 

Grade 9/10
The narrative grabs you and doesn't let you go! Watching the Spotlight crew tackle such a emotionally dense subject, that is being covered up by the church, is so tense. You find yourself yelling at the screen and cheering on the cree as these investigative reporters dig deep into this messy situation. All the performances are breathtaking. There is no wondering why this movie won the Oscar.
couldn't stop watching
Important simply because of the thematic...accepting this I realized that dramaturgy and acting was pretty poor...as was the characterization...I'm pretty sure an average European filmmaker would have pulled more out of it.
Finally got to see this over the weekend. Great movie, fantastic catch.
Sad, sad, sad story, told in an excellent manner. Kyrie eleison.
If the hollow heroics of comic books have left you feeling cheated and empty, for goodness sake watch this movie. The story is the star here, and the brilliant ensemble cast distinguish themselves by articulating a script that never sacrifices that story for cheap theatrics or emotional grandstanding. The facts are harrowing, but the thrills here are uplifting as well as professional; as the film closed, I felt a general pride in everybody involved that justice had been done in every sense of the phrase.
Although there wasn't a true lead actor in this incredible ensemble cast, it wasn't necessary in winning "Best Film" at the Oscars.  The acting was phenomenal, all around, as was the script.  A sad, but true story that needed to be told by the press- and now through this film.  It reignites your faith in humanity, even when individuals fail- and they will. I particularly loved the performance from Mark Ruffalo, although Michael Keaton may come across the strongest.   Rating:  8 / 10
Honestly... I don't know why this one won Best Picture. It's a compelling story and remarkable how the Boston Globe handled investigative journalism and I really liked Mark Ruffalo's performance. 

But did I enjoy this movie? Yes but not so enthusiastically. Rachel McAdams was just okay and I wasn't sure how she got nominated for Best Actress. I am glad though that because of this movie, we were able to shed light on pressing issues in the Church. It is a well pieced and well made movie.
Fascinating true story, no gimmicks just great acting
Very good, if a rather unsettling movie. Don't take young kids to this and if you take older kids or teens then get ready for some possibly uncomfortable after movie discussions. It definitely makes you think and was very well done and enjoyable in its way.
Fantastic movie! Great storytelling with fantastic performances!
A well acted drama taking on the Catholic Church and the gross mistreatment of a very serious situation. The Spotlight is shined on what turns out to be one of the most horrible injustices of our time.
Powerful and brilliantly acted.   in this day and age, it reminds you of how important journalism still can be.
Great film all around. Best drama of 2015.
Masterpiece. Must see!
They really nailed the blousey late 90's/early 2000's male dress shirts.
Watched Spotlight on Easter. Just a coincidence. :-) a wonderful investigative journalism movie
Should be required viewing for anyone still ignorant enough to consider the Catholic Church a foundation of ethics and morality.
I will never forget when they released that information... Great job!
Was so bored that I turned it off after 20 minutes.
Like watching an episode of Law and Order with a bunch of geniuses in the cast.  A waste of a great ensemble.  Limited director, limited script.  All the power comes from it's cast and the subject matter.  To those who say it was great because it was sober and sane and not exploitative, I can only say that a movie is not great just because it isn't offensive.  Also, seeing Rachel McAdams talk to townies is almost comical at this point.  How many Boston movies will mix movie stars with locals in hopes of being gritty?  Make a choice.  Go with actors or non actors.  Or else it does start to feel exploitative.  
The script is by the numbers.  Keaton is good, but who is he playing?  We don't even know if he has a family.  I believe this movie won so many accolades because people had goodwill toward the cast and the subject matter-- the newspaper reporters I mean-- and thus, when we were presented with half drawn characters, it was given the benefit of the doubt as stylistic minimalism. But it's actually just paper thin Law and Order network tv level filmmaking.
Fast paced, riveting film that does not lack entertainment. Dialogue is strong and delivers a powerful message, which is carried even further by the incredible performances of the actors. Cinematography is simplistic and emphasizes the realness of the story and the lack of exaggerating. It's about telling a story, not creating one. Edgy, fascinating movie that will surely keep you enthralled. Highly recommended.
I really don't see why such praise has been heaped on this film. It's alright but it has no amazing moments where anyone really breaks out and does something amazing including the writers. It's not bad but it isn't a must see.
A perfect example where everything comes together so well to create an Oscar-winning flick....
Larga, pero buena!!! Un filme que enseÃ±a el poder de la prensa cuando de verdad se va hasta las Ãºltimas consecuencias.
Usually movies about a true story of a scandal that happened or even something small that happened are boring or typical and nothing new from the last. But rarely you'll get one that actually is made well or even great. It takes a great cast, a director who keeps things going and a story that is actually worth making a movie for. With Spotlight, you have a cast that is top notch, mostly Mark Ruffalo caught my eye the most, a story that people either don't remember or didn't pay attention to and a script and director that keep the story going at swift pace. 
The movie keeps going and doesn't really let up. Even in scenes that not much happens, you're paying attention because what is being said is intriguing and with how quick the story unfolds you may miss a detail. What really makes this great is that it doesn't just bring a light to the reporters but also the victims and those involved and the courage it took to talk about this issue. At times it was almost hard to listen  to some of the stories because of the detail it goes into. That's what makes it what it is though. This is worth watching because it isn't just a brush over type movie that is trying to cash in on a story, it takes care of what happened and shows us the how hard it is to get the full story no matter the cost.
Brilliant performances from the cast. They made it feel real, as if they were really uncovering the story as the film progressed.
An engrossing, well paced film. Again great acting from Michael Keaton.
Good movie. I thought the cast as a whole was excellent.
Amazing & intellectual! What an insight into the scandal & into journalism at its core! That's what all writers & reporters should aspire to!
Except for Mark Ruffalo's awkwardness, this was a wonderful story and good movie.
Excelente película, una verdadera crítica al encubrimiento eclesiástico en los casos de pederastia en EUA
A tough film to watch especially being a Bostonian and raised Catholic and remembering many of the priests. Characters were incredibly compelling and believable. Still trying to make peace with the Catholic Church...this will make it even harder.
Great documentary, fascinating to see what the reporters went through to get this story and get the WHOLE story. They are real life heroes.
Spotlight showcases the use of storytelling and characters, in order to bring a powerful piece of film. In a society where movies are often more style over substance, it is nice and refreshing to see focus on a story and not mindless visuals. Everyone who worked on this film deserves praise and It is very clear why this was movie of the year for 2015.
Spotlight paints an interesting and eventful story out of a topic that seems unlikely to be made into a film. On surface the film seems to be about the Spotlight team characters, but it is actually not, not that much character development is required, yet somehow all the pieces are placed together by an important and free flowing story.
Great Documentary with strong script and actors
Insightful and well acted without being in your face about the stories significance.
'Spotlight' is a powerful and difficult film to watch based on its subject matter, that succeeds on the engaging performances of the cast, especially Mark Ruffalo, who display the journalistic process of telling a jaw-dropping cover-up properly and thoroughly enough to make the viewer feel they've been every bit as involved.
A thoroughly engaging and thought provoking insight into what true journalism looks like. Although I was a bit hesitant if I wanted to watch a movie about the subject but the movie was terrific! 
Must watch for all journalists and people who have any sense of passion towards their profession.
Starts slow but then becomes one powerhouse of a movie.  I don't remember last seeing a movie where everyone in it is intelligent.  These reporters are heroes.
Great movie but not the best Oscar winner I think for best picture
Absolute master piece!
must  see for everyone  that lived in Mass in 2001
I'm going to go out on a limb and confirm Spotlight as the best of the films I've seen that came out this past year. It's infuriating and heart breaking and masterfully done. Everything from the acting to the soundtrack was on point. Additionally, it's a powerful document on the misuse of power and the inherent contradiction in a worldview that purports to care about humanity while at the same time promoting a hierarchy of abuse. What's more, it speaks to a growing contingent of "lapsed Catholics" who have had enough of the hypocrisy. Even if you don't care about Catholicism, I highly recommend it as a movie about the power of humanistic journalism and the goodness of uncovering the truth. Go see it.
i thought it was a pretty good movie
It is predictable and has a paint-by-numbers feel but it does so expertly and is entertaining throughout.
A fascinating story and solid all around performances are really what propels the film. The direction and script are nothing special and when compared to the other films nominated for Best Picture in 2016 it feels like a letdown.
One of the best movies I have seen in a while. The cast was perfect. Everyone of them brought a unique piece to the tables. I highly recommend seeing this movie.
It was good not great. Not sure this deserved the Oscar but interesting in that these priests got away with this stuff for so long.
Taking us back to the feeling of true cinema. 
The subject matter is concerning but doesn't flood the experience. Spotlight concentrates on the investigative group of reporters and the journey they take to get the story. Outstanding acting across the board. One the best movies I've seen in years.
A film everyone should see, period. Brilliantly acted and executed!
One of the best films of ever.
A good piece of film-making, but ultimately entirely forgettable.
Really well put together. Kept me interested and absorbed in the story, rather than thinking about the film itself, which is a good thing. Liev Schreiber and Stanley Tucci were both really great, and deserved more recognition than Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo, who gave solid performances that weren't really anything special.
The cast is an impressive ensemble, but Spotlight's genius is in its calmly urgent take on events. In doing so, it makes them all the more sobering and gravid.

9/10.
Just saw this via Redbox . What a great film I would recommend this to anyone it keeps you in your seat also a real eye opener for me into the Roman Catholic Church
really eye opening, great story and great actors
Good, But did't deserve the Oscar
now that's a movie deserving of an Oscar. True acting by a wonderful cast.
What's scary about this movie? Almost everything. For starters after I watched i was 1) thankful I did not grow up Catholic  2) thankful I did not grow up in Boston  Toppling establishments is one of Hollywood's favorite themes. Usually it's police corruption or corporate greed that is targeted but the church scandal was made to order .Althoughyou definitely feel that the movie maker is exploiting a lurid theme, it's not  as over the top  as say, "the Exorcist".
This film was briliantly acted and tackled one of the most controversial and most difficult to publicize story because of its social repercussions.
Spotlight does an excellent job with the heavy and dense subject matter, making it approachable and relatable thanks to its topnotch ensemble cast
One of the few movies that actually made me tear up.  The stories were horrific but the extent of the cover-up was equally disturbing.  Solid Oscar Best Picture winner.
It's hard for me to put into words what I thought of this movie. While it certainly is unsettling considering the subject matter, Spotlight is still one of those films you just need to see. I warn you, if you're like me, YOU WILL BE FURIOUS BY THE END. But, it's only when we're mad as hell, that we won't take it anymore and change what's wrong with our communities. The only downside is that the filmmaking itself I think could have been better, but that's more of a nitpick. 86/100 B. Still very important, however.
Aprovechando la temática periodística, aquí si que estamos en presencia de una tremenda película, de ritmo vertiginoso y actuaciones sobresalientes. Guión inteligente para un tema espinoso y atrapante. 4 estrellas y me castigo por no ir a conocer Boston.
Bobbie And I. Love this Movie!!POWERFUL!! Got EMOTIONAL!! FELT THE WORLD IS BEING BETRAYED ON SO MANY LEVELS!! BY OUR CHURCH'S... THANK YOU FOR RETELLING THIS, STILL HAPPENING STORY!! SHAME ON THEM!!  I Remembered when it hit the NEWSPAPERS!!!   HELP US ALL AND PROTECTION TO ALL OF OUR CHILDREN OF THE WORLD!! IN JESUS CHRIST NAME!!!  AMEN.
Great newspaper movies often share the triumphant emotional punch of a great sport movies. This one is amazing.
Awesome story and screen play
A great story brilliantly told.  See it!
Excellent acting, storyline is thrilling. Would see it again!
Spotlight is spot on
The church can go straight to hell.
Talk about a hit-and-miss: an average investigative reporter movie on one of the hottest topics in recent years. The fact that it has won Best Picture Academy Award shows the mediocre level of 2015 movies.
As powerful and as classic the story is the movie doesn't add much. The whole world knows about these incidents, not many people dare to do anything about it. I loved the cast though; Ruffalo is my man!
Intersting movie, specially about the topic. It is really interacting how the act goes and you can see how devoted the journalists were to the case. Being a victim of such type of crime is undeniable the most horrible experience u can have in your entire life. I hope that those had find peace. 

Great movie
A story that deserved to be told. A fine film with a talented, ensemble cast. There's so much talk about Mark Ruffalo but Liev Shreiber's understated and subtle turn was one the performances to remember  alongwith Michael Keaton.
In one of the scenes in Spotlight, a character tries to talk some 'sense' to a Michael Keaton's character 'Robby'

"This is the Church , you're talking about, Robby. Look around.  These are good people,  done a lot of good for this city.  Enjoy the party..."

Makes me think of all the good examples supporters throw at you whenever you criticize people in power. Does doing a 'lot of good' give youthe liberty to do a 'little bad'?

Spotlight is a brilliant movie which handles its subject with a lot of grace and finesse.
A very interesting movie that nearly held my full attention the entire time. There were slow moments, but it was worth watching and the true events were interesting to learn about.
This is really a must see. It has very much the same feeling as the classic "All the President's Men" but modernized.
A truly gripping story from start to finish.  The story was brought to life with a great script that was complimented by the excellent acting.  An outstanding job from all aspects.  I would happily recommend this film.
Riveting from start to finish .
Great acting. Glad the real Spotlight team brought the horrors to the public eye.
This was the most amazing 2 hours and 9 minutes, very well spent. WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!
Great film! I commend the writers, director, cast, and crew on their bravery this was not an easy story to tell but they didn't excellent job!
Disturbing events uncovered by the Boston Globe. Solid movie but a little depressing. I thought The Revenant was a much better film but with Spotlight dealing with such a huge and moving story and focused on the media and investigative reporting it's no wonder it won best picture.
Spotlight is a very fulfilling movie that's easily very deserving of its Oscar win.
Spotlight is a film that shouldn't work on any level. This film has no flashbacks, no blood, no sex scenes and yet it deals with child sexual abuse that goes on every day in many churches and all over the world. Spotlight brings up the question of religion and puts it on trial making for a lot of powerful conversations that could make a person lose there faith in humanity and in the ideals that many of Americans believe about there on faiths.

Tom McCarthy makes this movie work so well. Allowing for each victim affected to tell there story in a way that never feels forced but instead like real people talking to each other. There are very few Oscar bait scenes as every character here feels like a real human being. Making this one truly amazing script.

Sadly the film can't help because of the nature and the choices they have made in not showing a lot of flashbacks or grotesque sex scenes that there are times when the characters are all just talking to each other and trying to uncover things that it can feel dull and there are just so many politics and things that stop the characters from going all in and making this story a reality and letting the people know.

Because of this I feel like this film did get some backlash from its Oscar wins because of all of these things. As powerful as the film is to some it may seem like a failure in there eyes, but it most certainly isn't.

Spotlight might not be my favorite film of 2015, but it defiantly deserves to be up there because of its powerful dialogue and script that makes it all the more interesting to see it unfold before our eyes.
I'm from Boston and this movie was close to my heart.
Spotlight is a carefully crafted film that delicately balances objective fact with overwhelming pathos. Every moment provides an opportunity for the filmmakers to emotionally attack the Catholic Church, but instead it allows the characters to tell the story through their objective journey. The characters are represented by a stellar ensemble cast with Mark Ruffalo earning an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. The dialogue is smooth and perfect when told by the cast. The words are soaked with wit and humor; an impressive feat for a film addressing such urgent truths. Tom McCarthey's directing is concise, and allows the actors to steal the show. Perhaps the movie lacks a climax, but the calm story telling accentuates the somber ending and gives the movie its gravity.
A truly compelling and devastating story that pulls you in from the start along with an all-star cast who give the performances of their careers.
A hetvenes évek igazságkeres? újságírófilmjeinek méltó örököse.
A compelling story of even more corrupted crap within America, albeit more somber than The Big Short.  To tell the truth, I did not find this best picture worthy at the Oscars, compared to every other nominated movie that I've seen.  Mark Ruffalo for best supporting actor is kind of a 'meh' for me, much like the guy from Bridge of Spies, and I still think it is an atrocity Steve Carell wasn't even nominated.
Definitely a must watch!
Reminds me of well made movies in the 90's before there was special effects and all the technology they use to make movies in the present day.  This movie is brilliant which comes from great acting, good story and directing.
Spotlight is a brilliantly subdued heavyweight of a movie wherein every component, even the somewhat mundane visuals, feel integral to the riveting story-telling.
Ruffalo was excellent.  McAdams is lovely.  The story and editing was a little weak though, and it didn't flow as well as it could have.  After Black Mass I'm starting to think that I've been right all along about Boston Bruins fans.
It was alright.  Interesting that it happened but didn't really make the best movie. Good performances though.
Perfect, in all levels.
Near-breathless high-tension performances from a fully immersed ensemble, each member conveying an unflagging determination to unveil the breadth of degeneracy. 
The screenplay, by [Tom] McCarthy and Josh Singer, is one of the film's greatest strengths, imbued with as much wit as it is sobering truths.
The film was not slow, it has its own rhythm. It gives the impression that journalists were afraid of the Church, because Boston is one of the most Catholic cities in the United States. The soundtrack bothered me because it is very repetitive. The film focuses on a journalistic investigation and not just on pedophilia. Although I agreed saying that Spotlight would win the Oscar I think the film will not be very successful unless the journalism university course.
This is a fantastic film about the decades long cover up by the Catholic Church of priests sexually abusing children and the journalists who uncovered it in 2001. This is a fantastic film about the importance of investigative journalism and the abuse of power. Great acting, great script, well deserved best picture win at the Oscars.
going to have trouble falling asleep after this one
I feel like Thomas McCarthy just made this film for attention
I made a sincere promise that I would fight every local priest in my area if this won best picture, I keep my word.
Just amazing movie from to back with a top notch cast and telling a truly important story.
Well acted and Well made, and pardon the pun, thank God no one is above the law NO matter what they do for a living!
Great movie....sends a message..
Such a brilliant ensumble cast who captivate the audience throughout while highlighting the important details of this scandal. Also the actors playing the victim were amazing I believed every word they said almost as if they were the real victims. Listening to what happened to these victims can be hard in some scenes but it's important that it is spoke about that to bring light to it and what has happened to them and is still happening now.
Excellent movie, compelling, grippling and horrific story. But it's not just a story, it is very real for so many people, the very thought of that is madding and frustrating! Very well made, kept me on the edge of my seat for the whole two hours.
Pues técnicamente todo perfecto, pero de eso a merecer un Oscar a mejor cinta ya es mucho trecho.
An amazing movie with a cast of incredible actors. A must see...
Sinceramente, existem filmes melhores sobre jornalismo, não que seja ruim, é pertinente, mas poderia ser melhor.
The subject matter and story are interesting, and acting superb. A little boring, and no real climax to speak of. Mark Ruffalo is really awesome, I like how he portrayed the character, and his feelings of relaying the important stories to the public. 
Watched by online streaming with Sam at her house, March 11, 2016.
Finally got around to this a few months late... Played more like a TV movie of the week. Some good performances and an emotionally difficult story, but the pacing and payoff could've been strong. A Few Good Men, for example, pulled off the build and reveal a lot stronger.  Regardless, it's heavy stuff and I'm glad for the exposure of this tragedy to reach a global audience through this film.
This is a great movie for many purely classical reasons: the story unfolds beautifully in front of the viewers' eyes, each scene adds important layers to both plot and characters, the characters are each personally outstanding but they shine due to the profession they represent. Marvellous. Reminded me why I enjoy seeing movies.
This was a very solid telling of the investigative work that uncovered the child abuse cover-ups of the Catholic church in Boston.  The acting was great, and I enjoyed the way the movie conveyed the real work and grinding necessary to unearth the scandal, as well as the mistakes that had been made along the way.  Won the Oscar for best picture.  It was in my opinion certainly in the top three.
Knew the story from early 90's, but had no idea of the background or how widespread.  One child, too much.  1000's is devastating forever.  I just watched this and I'm chilled to the bone and deeply saddened.

The acting was so good and I am surprised it was not recognized more.
Excellent movie about the Boston Globe investigating Cardinal Law and the coverup of priests sexually abusing kids.
I think this is an example of a "true story" that critics and viewers can't separate from the real-life players. People seem to feel that to gauge this as a stand-alone movie would be to impugn the victims and courageous reporters. Well not to impugn them myself, but as a moviegoer, I found this film to be a real snooze. I already knew it was about the reporters who investigated and exposed the scandal; I lived through that fifteen years ago. So I assumed that to be of full-length feature film significance, there was more to the story. There isn't. I kept waiting for some intrigue: overcoming major obstacles, bribes, vilification, threats; personal faith conflicts, parents who would disown them, spouses who would disavow them. There is none of that. In fact the personal lives of the main characters are barely acknowledged. One character wears a wedding ring but no spouse is ever mentioned. One character is mentioned to be separated from his wife but that's about it. All readily admit in one anticlimactic scene that they were all basically raised Catholic, don't attend church anymore, and meh. Among the lot of them, one is shown to have a nana who will likely be upset when the scandal breaks, and in the end, she asks her granddaughter to-wait for it-bring her a drink of water. Even the victims are downplayed. In one scene we see a victim initially being interviewed, cut to a scene where we are told-told, not shown-that he broke down ten minutes in and couldn't stop crying. You know that scene where Mark Ruffalo's character goes on a tirade about how they "knew, and they didn't do anything"? Yeah, you know it because it was in every commercial, every awards ceremony clip. Because it's about the only dramatic scene in the whole movie. Yes, the real story is of real intrigue. The movie? Not so much.
Spotlight (2015, USA) gained the recent Oscars spotlight after winning the Best Film. Brave and compelling, Spotlight exposed the systematic and systemic sexual abuse of the Roman Catholic Church clergy narrated from the investigative journalism standpoint. Intelligent and alarming, Spotlight features a solid ensemble to complement the aesthetically fluid direction. A you-have-to-see-this 10.
Amazing. Beyond the humanity of all the characters, shows the true need for a serious investigative newspaper force in this country (as opposed to what passes for truth on the Internet 99.999% of the time.)

Ruffalo's as amazing as he always is.
You can spot an Oscar worthy film from a distance. Spotlight is a brilliantly made film on one of the lesser known but horrifying acts done in the name of religion through the perspective of the journalists who uncovered those to bring it to public attention. There are no superheroes, big explosions or surprising twists but it is a film made with meticulous attention and in a way to keep you hooked to your seat despite the absence of popcorn thrills. Supported by a solid cast comprising of Keaton, McAdams, Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber Spotlight in an extremely nuanced and methodical way portrays one of the biggest cover ups behind the veil of the Catholic Church and religion as a whole. It is a story that needs to be known.
Brilliant movie. I personally think 'The Revenant' was better but this is right up there and worthy of the Oscar.
this movie is for grownups. boring
Watched Spotlight on pay-per-view last night. Powerful movie. I see why it won all the awards that it did. The story is powerful and sad, but well worth the watch. Highly recommend.
Impresivno cist pristup stvaranju filma. Jasna rezija, scenarij, predanost glumaca na najvisoj razini, jednostavno kvaliteta. Da sam ga uspio pogledati prije Oscara, za najbolji film ne bi dvojio ni sekunde. Potpuno zasluzeno i... usput, svidja mi se velicina i jakost muda koja su akademiji putem do 2016 godine uspjela izrast. Ovo je vrlo mracna i tema koju je trebalo pustit van, drago mi je da je ovako kvalitetno sutirana u mainstream.

p.s.: mozda je novinarska drama, ali kad creditsi zarolaju i prikaze se popis gradova, ugledas: Rab, Croatia, jasno ti je da si zapravo odgledao jedan od boljih horrora po istinitom dogadjaju ikad.
Always engaging, often powerful, perhaps it didn't go far enough to fully unwrap the layers of the subject matter but still thought provoking enough to be in my top 10 movies this year, 80%
We need more movies like this.
Yeah that's a great movie.
Deserved every award they won. Great movie - a real eye opener.
there's no going wrong with this casts. Tom McCarthy has made a very thrilling movie. It's no doubt the best movie of 2015
One of the best movies of the year, period.
A well-constructed, impeccably cast but inevitably flat product as a result of its surprisingly bi-dimensional premise. It's unremarkable.
From those nominated for best picture at the Oscars, this was a worthy winner - although personally I thought the field weak this year. This is a slow burner gradually gaining pace as the story unravels. As much about the process of getting news as the news itself. Wonderfully shot with the backdrop of a claustrophobic Boston trying to protect itself from outsiders. Superbly acted from the top billers (especially Michael Keaton on a roll now) right down to the victims. Only minus for me is the depiction of 911 in the events seen more as an annoyance to proceedings rather than an emotional event.
Very intense film. Long story but full of tension. The ending I guess is the success of a newspaper. Five stars.
good acting but decent movie
Oscar mais que merecido.
Spotlight is an expertly written, meticulously directed, beautifully acted and brilliantly edited piece of cinema. Tom McCarthy has done a tremendous job at bringing this heartbreaking story to life. He manages to stay as true to the real life source as much as possible and he doesn't dramatize the story. He didn't need to and I'm so glad he didn't attempt it. McCarthy doesn't sanitize this story either, he tells the audience exactly how it is. Right from the get go, he has you glued to your seat, and he makes you leave it speechless.

The production design team have done a brilliant job at re-creating the Boston Globe, where the Spotlight team worked. Every set piece looked incredibly authentic. The film was also edited brilliantly. There isn't a dull moment in this film, every single scene keeps the film moving forward at fast pace.

The performances really enhanced the film, and I truly don't think it could have been made with out this incredible cast. If the actors hadn't gone to such great lengths at portraying these real life people, I think it would have really affected the telling of this dark true life story. It could have felt very sloppy and very insulting. Instead we got brilliant performances, that felt tremendously authentic. Michael Keaton adds another stellar performance to his resume, just after his brilliant performance in Birdman. It's definitely exciting to see his career revitalised. He is joined by great performances by Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Brian d'Arcy James and Stanley Tucci. However the most notable performance for me was Mark Ruffalo. He truly blew me away. From start to finish he was just incredible. I truly believed his performance. You could tell he really cared about the subject matter and doing it right. I mean the guy asked his real life counterpart if he could watch him yell at someone, just so he could really bring him to life in this film.

Overall, Spotlight is highly informative and an incredibly important piece of cinema. Not only is it beautifully created and tremendously captivating, it's an important story that needed to be told. This happened and continues to happen, and the Church still tries to hide it. The film manages to work so well, purely from its amazing script and brilliant performances, without dramatizing a single thing. It's a brilliantly honest look at one of the darkest stories to emerge from the 21st Century, and it is without a doubt one of the strongest films from 2015, and will most deservedly win Oscars. It's a definite must watch, however it will leave you speechless over the dark subject matter.
I have no words for this movie, is beautiful, is perfect. I was caught from the beginning.
Certainly worthy of the Best Picture Oscar nod, Spotlight's great story and acting make it fun from start to finish.
If you haven't seen this, you should.
Really great film about an interesting topic and brought to life by superb performances from the well chosen cast. It is a highly under rated, and very worthy, film that wears its heart on its sleeve.
es una muy buena película sobre periodismo, muy parecida a la mítica Todos los hombres del presidente, de Alan Pakula (1976).
Ogni genitore che manda i propri figli a catechismo deve guardare questo film.
One of the best I've ever seen
Certainly a film with serious message and well researed. Script designed to send you to sleep in minutes. Completely uninteresting treatment, no drama, no suspense, no clever script, no action no interesting characters or oerformancesWell overhyped
A. Maze. Ing. 

Sensitive yet utterly powerful. 

The tip of the iceberg.
Hard hitting movie based around child abuse in the Catholic Church, based on true factual prosecuted stories. The team at the Boston Globe have uncovered a massive list of pedophile priests spanning 30 years.
The newspaper industry is no longer as thriving ever since most of us started embracing interaction over the web, but inspiring journalism has provided the premise to quite a few memorable films, particularly those that involve a long hard struggle to uphold the power of truth. This includes Good Night, and Good Luck (2005), The Insider (1999), All The President's Men (1976) and my personal favorites The Bang Bang Club (2010) and The Nightcrawler (2014). When you make a film on the uncovering of true horrifying cases of child molestation, nothing could be more rewarding than to have it culminating strength and positive effect on your viewers. And that is what director Tom McCarthy has achieved with his 2015 American biographical drama Spotlight. Not only has it garnered Best Picture at Critics' Choice Awards, Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture at the SAG Awards, and six Oscars nominations (including Best Picture), it has most importantly (according to Boston Globe's editor-at-large Walter Robinson) made a huge impact on the public, where more victims are coming forward because of this film. Whilst it brings forward much inspiration, igniting power within the victims, when scandal involves almost a staggering 250 priests from the Catholic Church in Boston who had molested children over several decades, we can't ignore as well the contempt flaring up in all of us and the derision which the churches has to painfully swallow. When asked about his reaction towards the film being made, Boston Cardinal Sean P. O'Malley, who took over after disgraced Cardinal Bernard F. Law stepped down pursuant to the scandal expose, says that it was "a very painful time" in the history of the church, and the series of reports forced the church "to deal with what was shameful and hidden". Insisting that the archbishop would not discourage people from watching the film, O'Malley has given his commitment in eradicating abusive priests from the church.
So Spotlight is based on this enthralling true story. It kicks off with editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) who newly joins the Boston Globe, attempting to further pursue previous column which reported on lawsuits pertaining a priest allegedly involving in sexual abuse. On learning that the judge has sealed court records to prevent the records of the priest from going public, Baron becomes determined to dig deeper to unveil the truth. Looking to expose a systematic cover-up by the Catholic hierarchy who not only knew what had happened but did everything they could to protect their own and discredit the victims, Baron then convinces the paper's Spotlight team of reporters to launch the investigation. The Spotlight team is led by Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), excitable Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James).
What's electrifying about this newsroom drama is how closely accurate it's made, and how almost "real" the story is depicted. It does not melodramatize the situations, and what we see is a group of journalists painstakingly assiduous in doing their job. McCarthy allows the story to take its place, making audience enraged as the scandal snowballs into something daunting and unnerving. I've never been too big of a fan of journalism films but this is one got me. It's pretty absorbing, the message is powerful, and the impact is deeply moving. A solid performance by the entire cast. I was rather surprised and impressed with Schreiber's performance. Ruffalo is as usual a treat to watch, with his righteous anger, edgy movements and pulsating enthusiasm. And another factor which makes the film effective, is the fact that no one is portrayed as the hero, and they basically drag you into their investigation just by being great journalists doing their job.
Intriguing and powerful. Spotlight grips you from start to finish and is well deserving of its Best Picture Oscar win.
The movie was worth watching very interesting how bad the cover up was in that time?
This movie is one of the best dramas I've ever seen. The story is both shocking and interesting, with a fantastic cast to bring it to life. The ability to show the horrible scandals of the catholic church could have been hard to get through, but spotlight finds a way to make it intriguing and exciting to watch how deep journalists are willing to go to expose the truth.
This is the most boring movie I have ever attempted to sit through.
Well written, well acted, well directed, well paced, well crafted. If anything, this suspenseful drama could have been a little bit more raw and a lot less well done. But that's a small quibble for a truly riveting movie that had me on the edge of my seat.
2015 for me was a not very good movie year.  And, I'm not sure in a different year that this would have won Best Picture, but it's really something to look back in 5 or 10 years and see,  

That being said, I enjoyed the movie and found it surprisingly better than expected.  From the understated acting (Liev Schreiber and Rachel McAdams in particular), to the choices made on how and where to end the story, to how Boston  became almost another character, I really enjoyed this.
Spotlight after thoughts: very heavy, deep & serious tell that only a strong cast could bring to life that lead to it's recognition as The Oscars choice for Film of the Year!!! A Roman Catholic, it was difficult not to feel conflicting emotions on how these stories could not have been revealed sooner. It was difficult to watch but a story that had to be told. Bravo to director, Tom M & Mark R, Michael K, Rachel M, Liev S & others. With such a delicate topic, I now understand why circulation & exposure of this film was minimized. MUST SEE!!! ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ of 5 (5 of 5)
Beautiful storytelling despite its depraved subject matter with the perfect ensemble cast to pull off this narrative. Michael Keaton should have gotten nominated for best supporting actor.
Oddly I didn't rate this film. I know I know. The topic is vital. The cast stellar. But come on - it just wasn't a great movie. There are scenes with people running around for no good reason just to keep their wets awake. It's a staggering story but not a great film.
A powerful and insightful film with brilliant direction, an intelligent script, and an amazing cast. Spotlight is a film that should be watched and talked about (certainly deserving of is Best Picture Oscar).
One of the best movies I have ever seen
I would say "sadly" the perfect candidate to win best picture after The Reverent a Mad Max:Fury Road.
The true story over the Catholic Church child sex abuse is the one movie everyone should watch for the story and actors.
Especially enjoyed Mark Raffalo performance
All the right beats.  A highly watchable cast teams with a fantastic director and dead on script to make a cinematic experience that packs a wallop.
Great movie and very well done.
Wow, great movie, cast and story. Very disturbing that it's based on a true story
Wonderful.
An excellent subdued drama with suspense, anticipation, and really good acting.
4/5. Spotlight shows us exactly how the modern, political drama needs to be set. Focusing on the professionalism required to deal and work with a highly serious, powerful, and delicate subject, the outcome is solid, stern and cold-blooded, without following the norm of relying on excessive sentimentalism.
A true movie. It really shows how a today average story can to be transmitted on film to get an unbelievable result. Simply great in every aspect.
Brilliant and horrifying. Absolutely deserved the Best Picture oscar. Great performances all around. Gripping and awful.
Incredible! There are no words to best describe this film. The story was told so beautifully. Every single actor in this film was on point. It literally keeps you on the edge of your seat!
Travail d'investigation intéressante dans un milieu tissé-serré que l'Église a su bâtir au fil du temps.
Spotlight is powerful and engaging. Never underestimate the power of the press and what hard work is capable of uncovering. It is also a scathing review of the state of the Catholic Church and their systematic burying of evidence for child abuse.
Power of Media when they're on the right side of the story.  So nicely developed and actors are all doing fantastic job. Nothing more and nothing less. exact perfect pace.
Loved this movie. It was so brave.  Reminded me of All the Presidents Men.   I think they deserved best picture and more.  Mark Ruffalo is the best. Made me cry.
Verdienter Oscar Bester Film!
What a fantastic movie shedding the light on the corruption within the church. I was raised a Jehovah's witnesses from birth. Sadly there is a serious problem within the Jehovah's Witness organization also. All religions say they are the true representatives of God but have the same flaw. They are run by men. Men with their own agendas. Religion disgusts me and they should all pay for the pain they cause in the name of god. I pray for a time when all religions worldwide are exposed for the crimes they commit. Spotlight gets 5 stars in my book. It is just a taste of the real problem. It is a must watch and opens the door and shines the light on a much bigger problem than just the Catholic Church...
cant get passed Ruffalo's accent
This film was moving and eye opening. Mark Ruffalo was awesome! Rachel McAdams could have acquired a Boston accent for the role in my opinion, but otherwise did a good job.
(Spoilers ahead).

I liked the pace and the rhythm and the way they treated the subject without being lurid. One of the strongest aspects of the film is that it succeeds in putting a simultaneous spotlight on the pain of the victims and on the collective negligence and cover-up by the Church, the police, the lawyers, society - and, most importantly, the press.

Part of the conscience crisis that members of the Spotlight team face is the fact that the team members begin to see and acknowledge they never investigated, printed, or followed up on several denunciations, clips, stories, and reports during a long time, including from members of their very own "star" investigative team that finally broke the story - this was very well done. They had also been part of the cover-up, even if their cover-up had been due to their disinterest and neglect, and due to not being as aware - unlike the Church, who had been outright criminal. As one critic put it, the film doesn't lionize and idealize its heroes, showing how the media was often in cahoots with the monstrous Catholic Church.

But... since the movie was written by liberals - who else? - it was replete with propaganda about homosexuality. The most god-awful lie is that these priests just abused male victims "because that's who was available". These people are doing a film about the most infamous male sexual abuse scandal in modern times and they want to insist that a 15-year-old male adolescent was sexually abused by a homosexual priest because the priest couldn't get his hands on a young female adolescent?

What a disgrace. They also never mentioned how many homosexuals there were and are far up in the Catholic Church who aided and abetted the pedophilia and ephebophilia crimes because they were threatened with being outed by the homosexual priests and bishops doing abuse. In the movie, it was all explained away as "these priests are emotionally stunted, that's why they are pedophiles". No mention of how many of them are perverted homosexuals and that's why they abuse.

And Father Shanley, described as "a hippie", not as the homosexual activist that he was! The movie writers denounce one scandal while continuing to engage in the cover-up of another - the homosexual abuse of minors!! Just as the Catholic Church tries to cover up any truth about its priests, liberals try to cover up any truth about how abusive its homosexuals are.

Pathetic.

As we can see, any information that presents the truth about how perverted homosexuals involved in the scandal are and were was purposely scrapped.

On the other hand, it's very good that the movie won the main Oscar, since this gives it visibility, and that means it gives worldwide visibility to the subject. The importance of this film is that it centers its attention on the societal cover-up, while also touching upon the gravity of the damage done to the victims.

And the ending with the bit about the fact that Cardinal Law is now living in high style in the Vatican was well done. Like Nazis who escaped to Argentina after the war and lived a comfortable life until their deaths.

See on Shanley: https://alessandrareflections.wordpress.com/2005/02/07/homo-defrocked-priest-shanley-nailed/
Pretty crazy what lengths powerful organizations will go to to appear pure. Makes you wonder about fraud everywhere around you.
It is a very good movie! I love it. I give it five stars.
Fascinating script and executed perfectly. The cast are all spot on. Stanley Tucci is an absolute star on this.
Fantastic (and scary) movie.
A well done biopic akin to the film, 'All The Presidents Men' about the dozens of Catholic Church molestation cases throughout Boston over several decades.
Awesome movie. A must see.
Excellent film, well worth watching.
Great Cast. Great story. Just not something I'd watch again.
A really great, slow-burn investigative piece that pays fealty to classics of the genre like All the President's Men. It's been a while since I've seen a picture with this much grit, restraint and respect for the story, and that makes the last half-hour feel transcendent, even if it's also strikingly bittersweet. Michael Keaton is excellent in another Best Picture winner, his second in as many years, and Mark Ruffalo shows tremendous passion and fire in a major ensemble effort. There's nothing flashy or indulgent about Spotlight, a rarity nowadays, and that vacancy leaves room for us to observe and appreciate the difficult, compounded, thankless efforts of these masters of their profession. It's also, often, a stark reminder that 2001 (where the movie is set) wasn't just yesterday. The world has changed fundamentally over the past fifteen years, and it's staggering how often this comes across, effectively, as a period piece. Essential viewing for a wide variety of reasons.
¡Excelentes actuaciones de todos! Buen film al exponer la dura realidad detrás de la institución católica y todas sus manzanas podridas.
Excellent! Will go in my blu ray collection.
masterpiece .. just masterpiece ... well deserved oscar
I thought The Big Short was a stronger contender in various respects, but this one is certainly no slouch.  More of a 4.25 star film for me.
Spotlight migth not be a fun movie, nor artistic by any means but is strong and important to this times. A must see.
The most disappointing aspect of Spotlight is that it chooses to focus most of its energies on delving into the investigative process than it does illuminating the stories of the victims. There is an unsatisfying gap where we are told of the situation, but not brought in. That said, being a Bostonian for the past 4 years, I have to say that in comparison to the "Black Mass"-es of the world, Spotlight does a nice job of dropping authentic references (BPL!) and showing much attention to detail.
One of the great journalism films. Excellent acting all around (especially by Keaton) and a crisp script.  "Spotlight" is well worth seeing.
The film intelligently depicts the procedures of investigative journalism with impressively restrained direction evoking a "documented" realism, but the story and characters brilliantly unfold on screen like a suspenseful thriller. The performances from Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams stand out the most, with great conviction and passion fully embodying their emotions. Finally, I have to say that John Slattery's blunt, witty humor makes just about everything better.
I (barely) knew nothing about the story and by god I was shocked. I knew the catholic church was hiding something, but at this massive scale? The acting in this movie is some of the best you will ever see. Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton are all wonderful to watch on screen. Everyone else is great too. This is something that will stand the test of time.
Very good acting, interesting, thought provoking
Wow. I see why it won the academy award. The content of this film is so massive, so heavy. This is a story that has waited too long to be told properly. The cast was great. The fluidity of it all was great. The ending was superb. And the part after the movie, before the clips rolled was even more powerful.
Awesome Movie About The Boston Catholic Scandals...
It was easy to see why this movie was nominated for best picture. It is rare that a movie tells a relevant story and it keeps the viewer in the story. Very well done!
Very informative and well written. A must see.
In the most important film of the year, and of recent years, "Spotlight" tells the story of the Boston newspaper crew that brings the world to its knees when they reveal what the Catholic Church has been covering up for years about the molestation of little boys by priests.

The film is first and foremost one that should be watched by all, it's important, and will tell everyone who doesn't already know how this whole thing went down in 2001, what it was like to uncover such a travesty of disgusting acts and how the Catholic Church would do about anything to keep it a secret and how they did. It's emotional, empowering, engrossing, informative, and easily should have (and did) win best picture of the year at the Oscars.

The writing is darn near perfect, it's a drama so it has to keep you sucked in the whole time, especially with no action or anything but dialogue throughout. But, it does just that, it runs smoothly, and has a great pace to it. It will most definitely grab your attention and hold on tight to tell you this unreal story. It also does this with the help of a story that most want to hear and know about.

The acting is by far the best part of the film though when it comes to breaking it down technically. With a cast that is indeed star studded; Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schrieber, and Stanley Tucci to name a few, it should be great. It's definitely led by the performances of Ruffalo and Keaton, who shine without a doubt showing raw emotion and determination to get this story to the public. You can see how much they care and feel about the matter. They also grab your emotions and make you feel what they feel, and make you care about this and bringing it to justice so to speak. McAdams is one I'm kind of disappointed in. She does well, don't get me wrong here. But I don't think she deserved an Oscar nom for her performance. One that I think was underrated and under appreciated though is Stanley Tucci, who holds his own and displays greatly that even in a small role with little onscreen time that he can shine with the brightest of stars. Everyone else definitely does a good job, I just think Ruffalo, Keaton, and Tucci deserve the most praise.

Overall it is a great film, it has a sense of importance that Hollywood lacks of now days. It tells a story that needs to be heard and does it smartly with the writing, and shows it greatly with the acting. All in all, it's a must see, and it is easily to see how "Spotlight" took home best motion picture at The Academy Awards this year. 4/5 JD
Not sure why it won best picture, aside from the nature of its story.

Don't get me wrong, it's a great movie. It's thematically heavy and emotionally moving. It also offers an interesting examination into corruption, power, and politics. But there was nothing in the execution that blew me away (though maybe some of the more poignant moments may have been removed because I watched the film edited).
A well deserved winner for the movie of the year that has perhaps one of the best casts of the year & focuses simply on pure simple storytelling of one of the biggest investigative reporting feat of recent times. The precision in the script is remarkable that keeps you engaged all through even for a technical story that can classify as boring to mainstream cinema lovers.. but not this one!
Sinceramente, la verdad los Oscar no convencen del todo; los temas y tramas a tratar se hacen de una manera un tanto superficial, los personajes carecen de un buen nivel de carisma pero al menos no en las actuaciones. Hay varios temas de la vida real que se plantearon adecuadamente pero se manejaron un tanto a medias. En lo general NO es mala cinta, pero si la veo dudosa de ser la Mejor peli del 2015
This is one of those rare films that given the subject matter, you don't want to see, but have to see it just because of how important and shocking it is. I cant fault this film in anything. The ensemble cast is all on top form. It was uncomfortable to watch in a few of the scenes recounting the abuse. Its a slow burner of a story, much like Erin Brockovich, but without any of the focus moving onto the investigators personal lives, it all boils down to uncovering the truth and its sickening to know that there are people who know about this and cover it up. Its very gripping. It deserved to win Best Film at this years Oscars. Just before the end credits there is a reveal of just how many cases have been uncovered on a global scale, it really makes you sick just to know how common this is.
Best movie ever! It tells the truth about priest which has been covered up for years.
Great Movie, deserves the title of " Best Movie of 2015"
Superb drama about a team of reporters investigating child abuse in the Roman Catholic church. Avoids pinning the blame on religion and instead highlights the failings of all institutions -including the press- to see what was happening in their community.
Fantastic, authenic investigation movie!
Amazing movie, sad commentary on the realities and hidden secrets/sins of the Catholic Church.
Kind of feel this was toned down for the audience or perhaps, given the documentaries and operation Yew Tree in recent years since this was the spark that lit the fuse.
A quietly captivating film that tracks impeccable journalists who slowly begin to realise the extent of human depravity and begin to hear the once-silent sins of a formidable institution screaming from within. Top-notch acting and direction makes this a tense yet understated example of film excellence.
Awesome movie, but this movie did not feel like a movie of the year.  The topic at hand was very moving, but it didn't move me to feel like I was watching a movie of the year.  It was good enough to be nominated, but I'm still sticking to Martian as movie of the year.  Having said that, I've only seen The Martin, The Revenant, The Big Short, & now this movie.  Not an easy topic to talk about, but still worth watching.  Easy movie to recommend.
Unbelievable that they could make a movie this good about an issue this tricky.
Great follow through on one of the largest scandals in the world. Movie went by quick, great acting and Boston is an amazing city!
Top notch performances, very worthy of its Oscar nomination.
This year's Best Picture Oscar winner is an excellent film and real eye-opener. Of course, I knew a lot about the priest scandals within the Catholic Church, but I had no idea how extensive it was in one city! The Boston Globe investigation not only uncovers the abuses themselves, but the cover-ups that go way up the church hierarchy. Though the reporters work is shown as being heroic, the movie doesn't let the media off the hook, either. Fine performances all around, with Mark Ruffalo the standout. I docked this a half star because I would've liked to have seen more about the immediate fallout once the articles went public, especially now that it's a world-wide scandal. A minor complaint, really. There are so few really good films about the world of journalism. This is definitely one of them - see it!
Good movie. Weirdly plain looking, but really intense once things start unraveling. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
Potent, powerful, and as timely as ever, Spotlight is a mesmerizing peer into a particularly disturbing true-life story, and its well-assembled cast make it effortlessly watchable all the way through
Very powerful, classic and emotional..
Extremely well cast & acted flick, exposing the truth that needed to be told.
Wow, just wow. No wonder it won an Oscar!
The drama in this film is unbelievable. The acting is top class. Truly remarkable what they went through.
Catholic Church cover-up exposed. Very powerful film. I feel for the many victims.
I thought this was a riveting, well acted and important story about confronting our societal failures. We damn those who are victimized by claiming they're "too close to the story" to be rational and forget to look at -ourselves- for perhaps being too entrenched in condoning and even perpetrating exactly what these victims are trying to tell us needs to stop.   I thought Spotlight also did a great job of not indulging in any graphic scenes of abuse or grief; there was no fetishizing or voyeurism and there did not need to be. You feel the horror of their realizations in real time from second hand or first hand anecdotes, you naturally grow to empathize with the characters who are introduced as 'difficult' or 'crazy.' 
One thing I wasn't crazy about was the cinematography in this film, though on the other hand the 'news footage' style did at least keep the film grounded; the pseudo-documentary style lent it some weight.
An Oscars worthy masterpiece! "Spotlight" tells the story of a group of journalists uncovering the involvement of Roman Catholic priests in child sexual abuse scandals in Boston area.
The pressure in the film is real, the victims, the lawyers, the people, your friends, your colleagues and how the society trivialized this issue.
"Spotlight" journalists, struggling hard against all odds, to uphold the justice of human rights. Well done to all the crews involved in the filming!
Powerfully compelling and terrifically acted, Spotlight earns its Best Picture honor with a fact-based account of a sensitive narrative and a well-rounded cast delivering great performances---especially by Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams.
Amazing story. Acting was riveting. You will use all your feelings.
5 stars. powerful and ALL the actors are superb. Saw it in Adelaide, Australia and for the first time I can remember in years the audience actually applauded afterwards. Compared to some of the trite shite Best Picture winners in the past decade this is a worthy winner.
Pretty whatever movie with an important message. 
Mark Ruffalo stands out. 
Cinematography was bad. 
6/10
Beautifully crafted film that brings to light the hard work that the journalists at The Boston Globe put in to this very important case.
Terrific performances, settle direction and a wonderful film indeed!
This movie is a must see for anyone that appreciates the art of fact based filmmaking. The movie wasn't flashy in any way, instead using a solid script and fantastic acting to deliver its important message about the corruption of the Catholic Church, and what the press can do to change things. Spotlight was fantastic.
Amazing story, worth watching. Great journalistic inquiry story that unravel the true story of abusing priest pedophile on children on Boston, that also had repercussion all over the world and the church itself. The comedians were on the top of their games. the story is clear and very focused. Not a cheerful movie, but for personal culture it should be watched.
Near perfect movie with great emotional depth.
Well acted, interesting, but not my idea of a memorable best picture.
brilliant story, its controversiality what brought it the Oscar.
Excellent acting is the best part of a sporadically-paced film. The difficult subject matter was effectively conveyed, sometimes nauseatingly so. Strangely, despite, I felt it could be longer. Perhaps that was the anticlimactic ending.
A very insightful film. Truly show the struggle, pain and vicious cycle of abuse of the church. Had a great cast and the script was phenomenal. Keeps you entertained to the end.
Intense story, Really did deserve that Oscar win ,
Yes, this is a worthy story that everyone
should be aware of and not allow to be
ignored, but it's also a terrific piece of
low key cinema. Those guilty of the
Church cover up are viewed just as
harshly as the perpetrators themselves,
if not more so. It lost half a star for the
slightly insistent and continual piano
music from end to end, but apart from
that a great old-fashioned choice for
best picture. Notable for continuing the
Michael Keaton renaissance..
This is a solid film, but I'm pretty sure the only reason it snagged Best Picture is its serious, based-on-a-true-story subject matter. Besides a couple stand-out scenes, not much here is as memorable or affecting as it should be. The performances from the all-star cast are mostly functional, rather than stellar. The exception is Rachel McAdams, who seems more fully immersed in her character than her castmates do in theirs. Strangely, Mark Ruffalo is actually pretty bad in this.
After it's surprising Oscar win for Best Picture, I checked out "Spotlight". Wow, just wow. An intensely powerful drama that masterfully explores a very delicate subject. If you haven't seen it yet, I strong recommend it.
E não é que Spotlight realmente é esse filmão todo que andam falando por aí? De início nem estava nos meus planos vê-lo já que eu e temas como abuso infantil ou qualquer tipo de assédio sexual não me damos muito bem, mas quando o torrent do filme é literalmente jogado em suas mãos - ou melhor, inbox - é difícil recusar. Dirigido por Tom McCarthy, Spotlight narra a investigação de um jornal local local de Boston sobre casos de pedofilia envolvendo a Igreja Católica e seus cardeais/bispos/padres/o resto. Desde o começo do filme somos tragados por esse ambiente jornalístico e de certa forma nostálgico, já que o tempo em questão é o ano de 2001. Ok, tinha 2 anos em 2001 e nostálgico não é a palavra certa, mas a questão é que eu não encontrei palavra melhor pra definir o começo do século sem ser Playstation 2 e Sandy&Junior. Voltando, o desenvolvimento do filme é construído de forma lenta, de maneira que possamos digerir toda a burocracia e politicagem envolvidas e se comover ainda mais com a causa aderida. É revoltante o modo que o sistema age acobertando os traumas de suas próprias crianças para a proteção de uma instituição com tantos podres como a Igreja Católica. Em todo momento o diretor joga na nossa cara que tudo isso pode estar acontecendo agora mesmo em sua cidadezinha de interior e você não faz a mínima ideia. Spotlight cumpre muito bem o seu papel como filme jornalístico e é um daqueles longas que te fazem querer ficar pra acompanhar a resolução do caso, mesmo que demore um pouco para a lenha queimar. Mereceu o Oscar? Sobre isso, como diria uma grande filosofa contemporânea, não sou capaz de opinar.
I wanted to open this review with some sort of flashy pun about how good journalism shines a light on the underserved or poorly treated in our society, and because this film is called Spotlight, it does a particularly good job at that. I couldn't find the right quote, and I see quite a few other reviews used the "shines a light" verbiage in describing this story of the Boston Globe investigative reporters who uncovered widespread sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, as well as a massive cover-up operation.

I also think the journalists who inspired this story would be unimpressed by the obvious nature of the pun. After all, one of the few edits Marty Baron, the editor of the Globe at the time, had for his Spotlight reporters was an adjective in their copy - a general no-no for news writers. A no-frills editor and a no-frills guy, Marty was, if I ever saw one, and he's played to perfection by Liev Schrieber in one of the film's standout roles. But like the Spotlight team itself, there's no weak link in the Spotlight cast or the film as a whole. It's a sensational piece of straightforward, dramatic filmmaking that uses matter-of-factness as a weapon against its audience. You don't expect the film to pack as much of a punch as it does because the outcome is never in doubt, and director Thomas McCarthy's approach is decidedly unfussy from the start. But Spotlight shook me up and left an indelible mark. It's incredible.

The film takes place mostly in 2001, immediately after Baron assumed the top editor role at the Globe. The Spotlight team consists of four journalists - Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James), and their leader, Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton). As Robinson explains to Baron, the Spotlight team investigates a specific subject for as much as a year before putting pen to paper on a story. He thinks they should focus on the Catholic Church, specifically a priest who was accused of sexually assaulting minors at as many as six different Boston parishes over 30 years. They take the assignment with varying degrees of enthusiasm.

And just like All the President's Men - which is such an obvious point of comparison for Spotlight, but a fitting one for its subject matter and quality - one piece of information proves to be the tip of the iceberg for something much greater and more horrible than anyone involved could imagine. The facts and figures are out there, but I'll leave them out of this critique of the film and let you decide how much you want to know going in. If you don't know much about the crimes, or your memory of the early aughts is fuzzy, the staggering number of victims will broadside you.

As far as the filmmaking goes, Spotlight is perhaps the ultimate case (at least in 2015) of the whole being greater than the sum of its parts. Everything in McCarthy's movie works - from the ensemble and the writing to the editing and the cinematography - but as good as individual performances and craft achievements are, it's still hard to account for how or why this movie is so damn good.

Let's start with the cast, and if there's any 2015 movie that screams out "SAG Ensemble Award, please!" more loudly than this movie, I've yet to see it. Mark Ruffalo is best-in-show for my money. He burrows into the character of Rezendes with a ferocity and precision that you don't see in movies like this. His physical and verbal tics are so strange, and yet, by the end of the film, they say so much about the character. He's arguably the most hard-nosed of the team, and he's definitely the least connected to Boston's deep Catholic roots (outside of the Jewish outsider Baron). When his superiors tell him it's not yet time to run the story, he personalizes it. Journalism is defeating him - slowly, but it is - and he's not ready to let these crooks of the hook. He explodes in the film's standout dramatic scene and reminds everyone why their city needs them.

Then, there's Keaton - so good in Birdman last year that he'll almost certainly take home a make-up trophy this year (even though I think he's better here). He's not in-your-face the way Riggan Thomson was (or the way Mike Rezendes is), but his Robby is the film's soul. He describes himself as Spotlight's "player-coach," though I'd argue he's more a "player-coach-GM." He's created a team that's effective at every position. His journalism gets done with a personal touch. Rezendes is the bulldog. And Sasha Pfeiffer and Matt Carroll knock on doors knowing they'll get turned away 99 times out of 100. He's a father figure for all of them, but also a beacon of friendship within the community, and his ability to balance friendship with his professional responsibilities is one of Spotlight's primary sources of conflict. The character manages both excellently, and both Keaton and the film's screenwriters - McCarthy and Josh Singer - deserve credit for conveying that to the audience without shoving his moral dilemmas down our throats mawkishly.

The film never goes down that road; McCarthy has more faith in his audience than that. During a scene of heightened drama, the only flourish might be a slow pan-out by the camera or some jump cuts between his characters conducting interviews in different places. What Spotlight proves, though, is that flashing editing doesn't create suspense, nor does yelling and shouting necessarily create drama. Great writing and acting and a director who's confident in those two things can combine to make a perfect or nearly perfect film.

I'm not ready to call Spotlight perfect yet. Nor will I give it that scarlet "M" for masterpiece that just asks for people to tear it down, especially during the nasty Oscar season we're entering. No, all I'll say now is that it's among my favorite films of 2015. It's virtually assured a top five spot on my best-of list this year, and it's a film I'll get so much enjoyment out of watching again and sharing with others. It grips you and moves you. It's about why I love journalism, and it is why I love movies.

http://www.johnlikesmovies.com/spotlight-review/
Well made movie. Tells the story of determined journalism without trashing the subject matter.
Good cast...but a very slow docu-drama. over rated. don't buy the oscar hype.
An absolute thrilling and gripping tale of stern realism !!!
Spotlight is a masterpiece in any aspect of the movie. Brilliant assemble cast delivering great performances all across the board and story that should have been so heavy to watch and hard to swallow for most of the movie goers made so well and modest that just locks you onto the screen and you don't let go until the credits roll.
Spotlight is definitely a good movie, but it is still far from a great one. The performances are excellent, the editing and directing are really good and the second half of the film is great with some fantastic lines, superb emotional moments and more involving dialogue, but the first half is not that great as it was too typical, sometimes even boring plus the character development is very weak.
Good to know interesting facts but a very slow movie.
A simple film about a not so simple subject matter, Spotlight is truly an ensemble piece with terrific performances, beautiful writing, directing, and pitch perfect editing that audiences will be enthralled with from the opening scene to the end credits.
What an excellent piece of cinema. I vaguely new of the situation beforehand, but wow. Powerful, powerful film. Jarring from start to finish, "Spotlight" shocked and angered me simultaneously. Performances were subtle yet extremely powerful. I did not see actors in this movie. That's how good they were. 8/8 gr8 m8
oscar de melhor roteiro: merecido
oscar de melhor filme: ?
One of the bravest films I have ever seen.
Yawn. How did this win?
Very good film that really drove home the horror of the moment as well the intensity of the reporting of the time period. Totally understandable that this got the Oscar.
Simply brilliant. Wonderful acting telling an intricate tale, and despite the sensitive subject matter, its dealt with in a dignified but straight-forward manner. Deserving of every accolade and the very bright spotlight laid on. 
Resonant Line: "Walter 'Robby' Robinson: We got two stories here: a story about degenerate clergy, and a story about a bunch of lawyers turning child abuse into a cottage industry. Which story do you want us to write? Because we're writing one of them."
This now best picture winner is not a run of the mill film. It's subject is hard to believe and unlike others before focusing on the priests and what they've done, this film concentrates on how the story was found and told. Interesting fact based film with a superb cast.
"Spotlight" directed by Todd McCarthy is a intriguing tale of people who did what was right even if they faced adversity. It is well acted and while mostly just being dialogue manages to somehow be entertaining
Unbelievable but I know it's true.  Very good movie!
Spotlight gracefully handles the lurid details of its fact-based story while resisting the temptation to lionize its heroes, resulting in a drama that honors the audience as well as its real-life subjects. Spotlight is a rare movie about the profession - and just enough about people in it - that simply feels right, speaking from the inside. McCarthy and his brilliant cast make hard work and truth-telling inspiring. One of the reasons that Spotlight is so deeply, absurdly satisfying to this newspaper writer - is that Tom McCarthy's movie doesn't turn its journalists into heroes. It just lets them do their jobs, as tedious and critical as those are, with a realism that grips an audience almost in spite of itself. Spotlight one of the best movies about journalism ever made, at once gripping and accurate. It doesn't just get the big things right, such as how news stories evolve, but the small things, such as what offices look like and how staff tends to react to a new boss. Near-breathless high-tension performances from a fully immersed ensemble, each member conveying an unflagging determination to right a terrible wrong, to uncover crime where it should never be. Spotlight doesn't call attention to itself. Its screenplay is self-effacing, its accomplished direction is intentionally low key, and it encourages its fistful of top actors to blend into an eloquent ensemble.

VERDICT: "High-Quality Stuff" - [Positive Reaction] This is a rating to a movie I view as very entertaining and well made, and definitely worth paying the full price at a theatre to see or own on DVD. It is not perfect, but it is definitely excellent. (Films that are rated 3.5 or 4 stars)
Den Oscar als bester Film hat dieser Streifen absolut verdient!!!
Best picture of 2015! This film shows more than courage or bravery. It tells the whole story, in the right way.
As was to be expected, a great story the shocking extent of which I wasn't aware before. on top of that, an intense display of how investigative journalism works including all the internal disputes and external struggles. when it comes to the cast, it is hard to pick anyone out in particular - it's an amazing ensemble.
It was a deeply amazing movie. Smart, intelligent, fast, thrilling, shocking and moving. Actor Tom McCarthy (Meet the Parents) wrote and directed this movie and he did the excellent work. Best performer was Mark Ruffalo. He did powerful and great performance. No wonder he got Oscar nomination. Rachel McAdams did nice performance and she got Oscar nomination too. But Michael Keaton was really really great and fantastic! He needed to get Oscar nomination too! Climax was thrilling and wonderful. I got goosebumps! Based on actual event. So many Chatholic Church Priests molested so many children. They used God's name and they did really terrible things... I was thinking, I can't trust people. I can trust only God. This is the crazy worold. Anyway everybody needs to see this movie. I'm so glad it won the Oscar for Best Picture!
A simply staggering achievement in filmmaking that is both more important than any movie made this year, and worth the weight of them all combined.  The impact of "Spotlight" is unforgettable.
Spotlight kept my attention through the entire movie. Fast pace!
Very good movie. I can understand why it won the Academy award for best picture. The pacing is great, the topic fascinating and the drama intense in some scenes. But I think what truly makes this movie are the actors and the characters they play. I really enjoyed Mark Ruffalo's performance over all the others.
Fantastic movie, certainly shed light on something that needed to be investigated.
compelling fasting moving,  and exciting  as the truth emerges
A heart wrenching drama about the sexual abuse, by the Catholic Church, on thousands of little boys and girls. Kept in the dark for so long this movie did an amazing job of telling the uncomfortable and important story while still keeping it non-graphic. This is definitely a movie everyone should watch.
Well acted. Story had to be told.
It tells an important story, it's well acted by a great ensemble cast, and does not resort to cheap thrills or melodrama. on the other hand, while there is nothing really at fault with SPOTLIGHT, it is not really that exciting either. it's a bit like watching titanic, you already know what's happening in the end, and in this case it really takes out most of the tension.
An interesting movie on an interesting topic.
Interesting this movie won top Oscar seeing as how Hollywood is pedophile capital of the universe.  Fall out should be interesting.
McCarthy and Singer turned what could have been a manipulative story into a fine exposition that does not leave the audience behind with the aid of the film's dedicated cast.
solid performance, intriguing, and round up with details
Despite having an interesting story to tell and being awarded by the Academy, I think this film is not very compelling. It´s the kind of film with an atractive topic, an outstanding cast but full of routinary scenes, endless dialogues and a predictable conclussion.
A fantastic and important film. Well deserved Best Picture, and Mark Ruffalo got robbed.
If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one.
Great performances and powerful direction.
First watching this night after Oscars, and not understanding the win. This is so full of cliches, I'm bored to tears. The overacting by Ruffalo doesn't help.
Extremely well written,  acted, and directed.  Exceptionally well done considering the subject matter, although investigative journalism is hardly this *exciting.*  Flew under my radar, but I'm glad I took the time to watch it.
The producers and writers went out of their way to make sure the priests were portrayed as molesters of both boys and girls and not homosexual. The facts are that most of the victims were boys, some of the priests were molested as boys and these priests' sexual orientation were homosexual. Too bad this movie tried so hard to hide these facts.
After winning the Oscar for best film last night I thought I should check this out. Based on a series of tragedies in Boston and the Catholic Church. It is at times an interesting film (in a sad way)  but there never feels like there is  much tension to make the film engrossing enough. Some decent acting from Rachel McAdams made her scenes seemed to be the most watchable. Mark Ruffalo was just annoying. Overall not great and I was surprised it won the Oscar for best film. The Revenant, The Martian and Bridge of Spies were all superior films to this.
Good movie and well made but kind of boring for my tastes.
Winner of 2 Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR! Spotlight was exceptional! Both Ruffalo and McAdams were phenomenal! This movie was powerful, emotional and unbelievable! I know this would be very difficult to watch for people who are religious but I implore all of you too see this movie, its worth seeing once in your life, its important to know that you, as a human being, have choices and can make a stand and help others if people are in need.
Excellent. Now I know why it won the Oscars.
Spotlight (2015) ??? 1/2
Thought-provoking, fact-based account was intended as biographical drama, but actually makes for splendid thriller, as important news reporters uncover irony about the Catholic Church. Very entertaining, good acting by all, particularity by Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams. This Won the Oscar for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay.
solid movie,  great acting and a story that needed to told. pretty shocking subject matter based on true events.
Calling Spotlight an enjoyable film would be wrong due to its heavy
subject matter, but Thomas McCarthy's film is from the get-go an
engaging and finely produced piece of filmmaking that aptly shines a
light on a pivotal moment in journalistic history that changed the
world's views of Catholicism for ever.

Based on a true story, Spotlight sees McCarthy somehow wash himself
clean of the stench that was The Cobbler and dust off any fears we
may've therefore harboured for him as a filmmaker to deliver his most
ambitious and loaded film to date, that also sees him for the first
time handle such a powerful story and pedigree cast.

Famous for intimate character studies such as The Station Agent and The
Visitor, McCarthy forgoes his tendency to delve into characters over
scenarios to focus his story directly into the Boston Globe newspaper's
investigation into abuse cover up in the Catholic Church system. Doing
so allows McCarthy to let the story take hold on the viewer and the
enormity of the situation wash over us as we realise just what was
being uncovered by these reporters, and without ever playing up
situations for easy emotional pay offs, McCarthy delivers hits without
an air of melodrama or cinematic tricks, no doubt aware that the
material speaks for itself.

Saying that the story is the star player here would however take away
from a finely tuned ensemble that's led by another great Michael Keaton
performance and both a reminder of Mark Ruffalo's talents and Rachel
McAdam's ability when given the right substances to work with, although
her Oscar nomination feels somewhat strange. Each actor brings a subtle
nuance to their incarnations and they act as another telling example of
McCarthy's (an actor himself) ability to not only direct and write, but
draw out excellent performances from his cast's.

Spotlight is an astutely crafted investigation procedural that never
strays to far from what you'd expect from such a tale but with a
winning script and a likable cast of performers it's a high quality
production that could've benefited ever so slightly from a larger focus
towards the cinematic.

In light of this however, Spotlight is a quietly powerful and sometimes
devastating look at a topic that continues to be played out daily in
far too many cities around the world.

4 foreboding church buildings out of 5

www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com
Spotlight lets strong acting performances and subtle, sharp dialogue lay the pieces of a very twisted puzzle in front of you.
I watched this movie over the weekend and I thought it was so good.  You have to watch it a couple of times to get it all but highly recommend
Unbelievably well made in every way.
Inteligent and good movie, portrait us what investigative reporting is all about. Keep me interested through out all the movie.
Great news for Spotlight, even though the competition was rather weak for Best Picture. Maybe the Pope will watch the film now????
great cast and great movie!
It shouldn't be so rare to find a film with a harmonious ensemble, well written, paced and edited, with a serious and worthwhile story that manages not to grim or gruelling. Sadly it is. But I enjoyed Spotlight all the more for it.
Two words "left field" bravo Tom McCarthy for directing a fantastic film. In addition this is the second film in a row Michael Keaton has stated in which has won best picture which in my opinion is better than winning in the actual category of best actor(not to take away from Leo's Oscar winning performance). This makes Keaton the most valuable actor in Hollywood because for the second year in a row a film he stared in has been "spotlighted" (lol) as the best picture.
Though this review comes a day late and a dollar short of Spotlight's impressive win at the Oscar's for picture of the year, better late than never perfectly describes the journey of this incredible story over a near decade's worth of waiting.

For me, Spotlight was not the film of the year.  It does, however, have the best ensemble bar none.  Keaton, Slattery, Ruffalo, McAdams, Schreiber, James and Tucci rise to the occasion of the source material to not only delivery a tension-based thriller, but a successful, fact-driven adventure that ultimately concludes with a satisfying fist pump so to speak.  While Ruffalo may have been given the nod for best lead actor in the film, it's tough to see him take that home with such a well-rounded cast occupying the same amount of screen time as everyone else.  This wasn't just a Dustin Hoffman/Robert Redford kind of duo.  It was a team effort all the way, and you get a great sense of just how important one journalist was to the other's work.

The material is tough.  The movie throws all the punches it needs to in order to make the audience understand just how heinous these acts were for the the system.  It never glorifies the villain here.  We only briefly get to meet the Cardinal and his disciples, and instead we focus on the journalists who put in the time and hard work necessary to unearth these stories. 

However, the best point to note for director Tom McCarthy is he never idolizes or glorifies any of our heroes.  It's right back to work at the end for these characters who neither need the adulation or seek it.

So while Spotlight should be praised for its delicate handling of the source material, some might actually say it doesn't go far enough.   The text at the end of the movie summarizing everything we watched over the course of two hours doesn't hit as hard as seeing the actors portray it.  But then again, maybe their job was hypothetically completed once the world saw the story on that fateful morning.
Deeply engaging and emotional exploration of a very sensitive, real life issue of sexual abuse and corruption from the very people we turn to for protection, church and state. Rich performances from Mark Ruffalo whose passion as an investigative reporter fires through the challenges to tell the sordid story. I had goose bumps at many points of this film and was emotionally connected to the storyline. Michael Keaton also delivers a strong performance. Amazing film. BEST PICTURE WINNER well deserved.
Not unwatchable, but--and this sinks in as you leave the theater--just awful. Myriads of "characters" all trying to add intrigue and drama to proceedings that have no drama, even though the underlying story is dramatic. People talking in offices. Reporters running through hallways. They could have tried to make it as compelling as JFK. There's a scene in JKF with people sitting at a restaurant table with eerie music and eerie lighting and a sense of foreboding. None of that here, probably on purpose. Very low-key. They were trying to be subtle. Maybe this got the Oscar because the voters wanted to deflect attention from the other issue confronting the Academy this year..
More interesting than entertaining, was  engaged throughout but never enthralled.
A shining example of the difference investigative journalism can make in this world. Something that seems to be lacking in today's age of Internet blog stories, unverified news articles and poorly edited columns.
Wow.  A damn good movie.  It doesn't get too invested in the characters.  It's a story of uncovering information.  And while its no mystery, today, what they uncovered within the Catholic church--it's fascinating to watch them fight past the cover-ups and the bureaucracy.  I can see why it won Best Picture.  It's a movie that everyone should see.
To me it was average.  I didn't particularly get into any of the characters.  The plot was good and involving.
It lacks a true cinematic touch. Spotlight almost feels like a documentary at times. It's uncompelling and not a movie anybody really needs to see. (First and only viewing - 3/23/2016)
Well timed and very well made.

The true story of how, in 2001, reporters at the Boston Globe investigated accusations of Catholic priests in Boston molesting children.  Following on from leads, interviews with victims, existing court cases and extensive research they reveal decades of abuse.  Moreover, they discover that the issue was far wider spread than they at first believed, that senior members of the diocese were aware of the issue and that the church systemically covered up the crimes.

A well made movie: interesting and intriguing.  It had the potential to degenerate into a dull, dry paint-by-numbers docudrama but writer-director Tom McCarthy gives the characters depth, builds the intrigue like a spy thriller and makes a very realistic-feeling movie about investigative journalism.

The director is aided by some great, understated performances from his cast.  Michael Keaton is the pick of the bunch but Mark Ruffalo, Liev Schreiber, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Brian dArcy James and Stanley Tucci put in solid performances too.

Another factor the movie has in its favour is timing: (alleged) abuse of children by priests of the Catholic church is a highly charged, highly publicized, internationally widespread, current issue.  While I do not think Spotlight was the best film of 2015 (for me, that honour goes to The Big Short), Spotlight isn't far behind the best in terms of pure cinematic quality plus it taps into a highly topical issue.  

I thus think it is the contemporary nature of its subject matter that saw it edge out the competition for the Best Picture Oscar in 2016, and I don't see a problem in that (despite my preference for The Big Short).  One of the purposes of art is to capture the look, feel and issues of the times and preserve them for posterity.  Spotlight fulfils this function very well.
This movie was riveting from the start. I was very disappointed that Michael  Ruffalo  didn't win best supporting actor. When I think of this movie I see his face showing his disbelief and discussed of what was happening and being ignored by everyone.
I love this movie. The story is engaging, all actors are great, well written, well presented, basically you get out of the theater feeling very well informed about the case (which was a true story).
A story that needed to be told.  Must see.  Enraged at how the Catholic Church got away with these.  God bless the victims of this abuse.
Definitely a story worth telling. The Catholic Church should be ashamed of what they're hiding. Good cast, good acting, slow at times however, a very somber film based on true events.
I watched it two times in a row to make sure I didn't miss anything
Solid 70's style newsroom piece that shows you can keep an audience interested for two hours with just the basics
Great movie, great cast, great acting, really good!
Spotlight tells the terrifying true story about a scandal in the Catholic Church from 2001. With an immensely talented performance from Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, and the supporting cast, the film becomes immersive and intense without any violence or effects. With the film taking place in mostly closed spaces, the story is able to be told in a claustrophobic and tense environment, which gives the characters and the audience a feeling of having their backs against the wall. The story may not be simple enough for the casual viewer, but it does provide enough intelligent storytelling and compelling character interaction for the target audience and is a worthy contender for the Oscars.
Took a disturbing subject matter and portrayed it with an honest and interesting way.
Restrained and deeply unsettling, the magnificently crafted and perfectly cast "Spotlight" handles a disturbing topic with respect and finesse, resulting in a exceptional drama that truly honors its real life subjects.
This is kind of a snore if you were paying attention to the story in 2002. Having known of priest abuses from friends as early as 1992, this movie does a good job explaining the "why" behind the systematic brainwashing and justifications of the Catholic Church and its "rationale". But the film isn't terribly emotional or interesting unless you are a reporter and get into the details of reporting. If is new to you it is probably a good movie to see.
Spotlight is an excellent film. 
The dialogue was very well done because it was really well paced and realistic. It felt like a normal person could have actually been saying the lines - and in some instances maybe they were lifted from real life - which was really powerful. It also made events more shocking (the possibly brain-addled priest that calmly confessed on his front porch to having molested young boys), more emotional (when Mark had his outburst, saying that they needed to publish the story right away so it wouldn't get taken by somebody else and messed up) and more brutally, brutally, memorable (any one of the stories of being molested or raped by victims). 
Part of the power of a film like this is that it is a true story and that realism makes it more affecting because while the drama is playing out you also know, as a viewer, that it actually happened. Spotlight's job was to not break that spell and to keep the film as true to reality as possible. Everything about the costumes and the lighting and set design felt very realistic, not to fashionable or favorable. 
Even though it is a form of film (the big cover-up, the feverish investigating, the breaking news story!) that has been done very often and with a lot of success, this still felt fresh and graceful because of its attention to detail and realism.
Superb movie - blew my moderate expectations away. A good-old-fashioned thriller with a collectively wonderful performance by the cast. Unmissable.
I had really hoped that "Spotlight" would live up to the hype of 6 Oscar nominations and its status as the front runner for Best Picture.  It did not.  Expectations aside, I found this film to be interesting and well-done but not at the same level of Oscar contenders like "The Revenant," "Room," and "The Martian."  The only nomination that I would have given to this film is to Tom McCarthy for his screenplay and its treatment of this sensitive subject matter.  The statistics are shocking and the stories of the victims are sad but the film never seems like an attack on the church.  The use of strong sexual language is limited to the first half of the movie, serving as a reference point that we can remember throughout the story without having to hear those words over and over again.  I think that the shock of hearing some of those terms is necessary to grasp the levity of the allegations but I appreciate that the script didn't continually hit us over the head with graphic sexual explanations.  The film focuses on exploring investigative journalism instead of pushing a hidden agenda, and it is impressive that a story about new research could be so riveting.  The acting is above average, especially the Boston accents, but I disagree with the Oscar nominations of Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo in the Supporting categories.  In fact, I enjoyed the acting of Stanley Tucci, Michael Keaton, and John Slattery more than either of them.  Ruffalo gets to shine in one emotional scene but his acting throughout the rest of the film is average when compared by this year's performances by Steve Carrell and Idris Elba.  I'm not even sure what stood out about McAdams' performance to bring her so much acclaim.  Outside of the acting, the atmosphere and sense of authenticity adds to the realism of the story.  It was appropriate to film on location at The Boston Globe where the Spotlight team's findings transpired.  "Spotlight" is a very good movie that handles sensitive events in a creative, informative, and nearly unoffensive way.  Just prepare yourself for two hours of depression and a film that may fall below your expectations for an Oscar contender.
Great movie, tells the sad and horrifying truth about the dark side of the Catholic Church, but great acting from the cast of the movie.
So well done, spot on in it's dissection of the abuse and cover up by the Catholic church...great movie !
Spotlight builds up from a chaos amount of information, witnesses, clippings and books to an article that changed the face of the catholic church, that is the main feature of this film for me. Tom McCarthy made this a snappy movie, you feel like you're working together with these journalists. 'Spotlight' tells a horrifying story, thankfully people like this made it public.
This deplorable subject matter should have been done 30 years ago when the abuse started and seminaries began shifting to homosexual men. The Church, which I love, is still dragging feet to clean up this travesty. We are all sinners and there are sinners in all churches, but this activity was covered up, spread, and protected by people who I can only believe are at least somewhat evil and beyond mere sinners.
Spotlight focuses on real life events that were probably very brutal and unimaginable and the great odds that a newspaper team(spotlight) went to literally stop the unknown crisis. Such humanly acting by everyone. This movie is GREAT.
AH, THOSE GOOD RELIGIOUS TYPES, SO MORAL, SO DECADENT, SO DECEITFUL VS THOSE THAT DONT BUY THE GUY IN THE SKY SWILL!!!
Spotlight has gained attention recently both controversially and critically acclaimed - it is a fine example of a stand for journalism and morals, but the story seems clouded by a mood of depressing visuals and not so much suspense - it misses a few key elements.
A team of Boston Globe writers gain as much coverage as they can for a piece on the church's stance on over 90 child moleststions by priests in Boston, struggling with what they can do and who they can get to help them.
Spotlight is good but not great. It is filled with pros and cons to match up directly to that pro. It has a good story but there's little suspense to it. The performances are good but the characters themselves are a little bland. There's a gray cloud like feeling everywhere in this film that makes it less enjoyable and more realistic - maybe that's what makes it good in some senses but in others it gives the film a dull feel. The real life aspect of the film gives it its feel. Spotlight is good, but not Oscar nomination worthy.
powerful and very well made
Solid story. Nothing original though.
Certainly the most important story of the year in movies. The ensemble acting is superb, it's a great watch and not-so-arguably a must watch. It starts off slow and slowly picks up the pace, and most of the story can be hard to follow on first watch. Once you get the larger picture and figure out who's who and what's what, it's an extraordinarily well done film. Unfortunately it just takes patience to get to that point.
"How do you say no to God?".  This movie is so good, and so important.  It will remind you of "All The President's Men" with its attention to detail and its investigative narrative.  If the film doesn't make you angry it is safe to say there is something wrong with you.  Incredibly powerful at times, but the final graphic will, or should, knock you over!!
Este es buen cine,  historias valientes que denuncias las atrocidades,  hipocresÃ­as y abusos de poder de muchas instituciones que se llaman ser representantes de Dios.  Las actuaciones no son tan relevantes como otras nominadas pero el trabajo en equipo fue muy logrado.  Rufalo es el mejor.
Everything is firing on all cylinders in this movie. An untold story, with children as victims, and international scandal. The film has great acting and story. Unfortunately there just nothing remarkable about it. Maybe it deserves more credit for just telling the story like it is without exaggerating it for entertainment. The problem is though its not the kind of movie you ever want to see again, You really enjoy it at the time but there is no reason for a second visit.  There is no great scene or outstanding moment. This is as good as an unremarkable movie can get.
Since I am interested in stuff like this, I might be biased. However, it is one of the best films in 2015. Hands down.
Powerful. Intense. Riveting. Real. These are just 4 words to describe this movie that is based on a true story! I feel that this movie may be the best picture winner come Academy Award time tomorrow night! I highly recommend this very dramatic thriller!
Excelente guión, excelentes actuaciones que encarnan heroicos personajes. Spotlight nos ofrece una película sumamente reflexiva. Estructuralmente impecable, espectacular en todo sentido.Aunque cuenta con un final muy predecible y nada impactante en realidad, Spotlight esalgo que vale la pena ver.
Solid movie, impeccable acting from Keaton, Buffalo, &Tucci..great writing about an uncomfortable subject .
I did not think that a movie about pedaphile priests would be a good one.  It was not good, it was fantastic!  Very well acted, it has intense drama about the Boston Globe's investigation into the Boston Catholic Diocese hiding of pedohile priests which builds to a satisfactory ending.  It reminded me of the movie, "All the President's Men", about The Washington Post's investigation into the Watergate scandal during the 1970's.  I highly recommend this as a must see movie!
???????, ??? ????? ????????????? "???????????????" ??????? "??????". ???????????, ??? ????? ????? ????? ?? ? ?????? - ??????????. ? ???? ? ??????? ????? ????.
Although the subject matter is brutal, this movie is engulfing from the first scene to the last.  It captures the tentative, questioning nature of investigative journalism at it's best.
Perfectly presented film with great performances,  addressing the corruption of the catholic church and the need to protect and aid victims of abuse.
good journalism can birng a lot of good
Spotlight is the clear rival to the revenant in terms of taking home the best picture award this year. Followed by a superb cast and serious but disturbing plot line, Spotlight is a gripping film that will leave you thinking for a while and put into perspective what we didn't want to think about. Go watch it!
Has the pontential for an Oscar.
I liked this movie a lot more than I thought I would. Sure, I don't like when people/organizations/press defame the Church, but this was and is definitely and on going problem that needs to be shown for what it is and eradicated. This film was a great representation of something that was done to really kickstart/move forward that process.
Incredible film. The pacing, acting/cast and flow are outstanding. Id say right up the w/Revenant for best picture. A must see. 

I may still pick Revenant to win though but it's anybodies game.
Kind of speechless, actually. Incredible movie. I named my cat TESPRI (TES for short). TESPRI = PRIEST. She's black with a little white spot on her collar. But I like my cat. ; )
Im not saying this often, but Spotlight is a must-see in many ways. Trust me.

Spotlight is a tremendous piece of film making that will make you go completely speechless. The movie is a dramatization of the Boston Globe newspaper's 'Spotlight' section who, in 2001, began an investigation into the systematic child abuse by Catholic priests in the Boston Diocese going back over a (known) period of 20 years. Unraveling the abuse also reveals a huge conspiracy by the Catholic Church (including the current Cardinal) to cover up said abuse by exercising their influence in both political and legal circles, buying off those who were abused and come forward, using gagging orders and confidentiality agreements to make sure the truth never comes to light. 
Tom McCarthy knows how to set up the sensitive subject, it attempts to "fairly" represent the Church's side in the beginning. We start with one incident of sexual assault, or rather the aftermath. It's a short scene and it doesn't show a mother weeping over her victimized child praying for the blood of the Pope, while a priest twists his handle bar mustache. This scene cleverly, and deceitfully, shows this as a one-time incident that the church regrets happened. 
The acting here is phenomenal. Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Billy Crudup, Stanley Tucci, Brian d'Arcy James, Neal Huff, Paul Guilfoyle, Len Cariou, and the list goes on. Everybody who had any single line in this film was great. This film is built around the powerful performances delivered by these talented people and the passion their real life counterparts brought to their job, which really shines through. This film has power in spades and as the onion is peeled back, you are left stunned at this true story. A film that makes you overwhelmed and needing a long bath to try and cleanse all the grime of the world off of you, Spotlight is a great work that deserves all of its forthcoming accolades.
The movies biggest strength is its story telling  which is a master class. The way McCarthy builds up the tension is incredibly intelligent, so that in the end, it all falls down onto you. I expected this movie to be shocking and making me feel uneasy, but then it gave me a lot more: compassion, in a way I never expected. Absolutely loved it. There was no unnecessary drama, the movie focuses solely on the issue of the controversial story it tells so well. The emotional impact of this movie is so significant because of the reality that surrounds the actual cases that are portrayed. 
The film suffers from a few pacing issues during the first act but quickly recovers and doesn't slow down. The reality of the story being told is what makes this movie essential to watch. The importance of the issues discussed throughout is never understated and every character plays their role to perfection in contributing to the unfolding of this unique and true series of events. Religion plays a role in this narrative as it naturally contrasts and opposes the scandalous nature of the cases highlighted in this movie. Religion and morality are constants throughout the film as they compliment the nuanced narrative and contrast the tragedy being focused on. 
Spotlight is an important film that deserves to be acknowledged for the role it plays in communicating the significance of a substantial and controversial story in need of attention and ongoing in the world even today.
Il film in sé non è nulla di trascendentale. Ha sicuramente il pregio di saper tenere alto il ritmo e l'attenzione per tutto il tempo (in un film dove metà del tempo passano a cercare pezzi di carta in archivio non è banale). Il motivo per cui questo film è da vedere è per la tematica affrontata: la pedofilia nella chiesa, ma soprattutto le dinamiche della comunità dove tutti si prodigano ad insabbiare la cosa.
Excellent film about the investigative reporters from the Boston Globe who uncovered the sex abuse scandal in the Catholic Church.
a little bit too understated, would've liked a tad more emotion
Hieno draama Boston Globen tutkinnasta katolisten pappien harjoittamaan lasten hyväksikayttöön. McCarthyn elokuva ei juurikaan häviä muille hienoille tutkivaa journalismia kuvaaville elokuville kuten Presidentin miehet ja The Insider. McCarthy on koonnut vahva näyttelijäkaartin joista kukin tekee hienon roolityön. Reportteri poukan ulkopuolisista rooleista erityisesti Stanley Tucci loistaa. Elokuva tavoittaa myös hienosti vahvasti katolisen Bostonin ilmapiirin ja vähimmilläänkin vahvavasti passiivis-agressiivisen suhtautumisen kirkon toimien tutkimiseen ja kyseenalaistamiseen.

Vaikka olen aiheeseen tutustunut mm. muutamien järkyttävien domenttielokuvien kautta niin silti elokuva onnistui järkyttämään.
How do you approach a scandal that swept the entire world? Head on. That is exactly what the Spotlight team did and this film takes the audience to the center ring of the scandal that truly shocked the entire world.
Very very very powerful movie. Really makes you think about religion and everything that goes along with it. Low budget but welll-made and great acting.
A slow movie - serious stuff only.
very emotional story
A masterpiece of storytelling and ensemble acting.
Flying acrobatics, cinematic tourist-like scenes, rollercoaster-camera-moving fight scenes seem budget-restricted. Nevertheless, the sound effects of the smallest details of swords banging and screeching are more varied than the monotonous thuds and punches of Avengers: Age of Ultron ::
Fantastic journalism drama and the exposure of Catholic sex abuse in Boston.
3.5/5.  A terrific cast and an important story.  The narrative progression, however, was initially a bit slow.  In fairness, other newsroom-type stories have felt the same way.  The acting was uniformly very good.  It picked up substantially in the second act, and became involving.   The film is well-made, but I wouldn't pick it for the Best Picture Oscar.  If you are into social issues, enjoy newsroom stories or stories with a legal bent, this could be entertaining for you.
Good film, based on a series of true tragedies in Boston. Although the movie is interesting (in a sad way), there isn't enough tension in the story to make this dramatical enough. I found the acting great but storyline not punchy enough to create the suspense I expected. Worth a watch, just not great.
''Spotlight'' is one of this years most powerful Oscar movies, with a great ensemble cast, great/powerful story, well-paced. There is not a single dull moment in this fine movie.

Spotlight is the true-story behind the 2002 expose into the Catholic Church's cover-up of decades of sexual abuse and it is unflinching in its focus and animated by its outrage, which is the best and worst part of this awards-caliber movie. Spotlight is a terrifically scripted and performed journal thriller. The actors never seem like they want to overshadow the other, but instead all work towards the common goal of the film's story. 
Mark Ruffalo is great while Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams are decent. The cineomatography is smooth and the editing is tight. The screenplay is terrific and delivers an accurate representation of journalism. However the movie just feels so empty and simplistic. Stanley Tucci and Liev Schreiber are really good in the small amount of screen time they get. Overall while Spotlight is good but it isn't really anything special and failed to give the characters much depth. Not one character in the film apart from Mark Ruffalo's has any development or motivation to do what they do. The whole thing just feels shallow and completely forgettable. 
I feel The Revenant was far more deserving of the Best Picture Oscar
Solid movie with a great cast tackling a very difficult subject.
A must-see film, with a great story and cast, about a critical social theme; this movie is intelligent, taut, realistic, humane and very respectful of its audience, including the unresolved matter of why and how the Globe missed the big story twenty years earlier.
Excellent. Reminds of All the Presidents Men.
Truth is finally out.
Saw it in the movies.  Terrific story.
Investigative reporting isn't interesting day to day. It's mostly busy work, tracking down leads, taking notes, and interviewing people. Films about these investigations amp up the thrill, show reporters' conviction, especially when they crack a case open and go on to challenge an entire system. The best film ever made on this subject is of course "All the President's Men" which covered the Nixon Watergate scandal. There's espionage, drama, abrupt tension, and serious thrill. Hand in hand with that classic is this Oscar nominated gem, "Spotlight." Just as serious an issue drives this film, which is the true story of the Boston Globe's Spotlight team uncovering a sex abuse scandal in the Catholic Church. 

Read more at http://www.bluefairyblog.com/oscarseries/2016/2/19/spotlight
Spotlight was quite absorbing with a very intense plot that shows an enormous investigative team-effort to uncover an extremely despicable situation. The script was very powerful and all the acting, but especially Mark Ruffalo's, really brought the story to life. The picture was as good as non -action/-sci-fi/-visual-effects-dependent movies can be. It's a film definitely worth watching.
One of the best movies I have seen this year. How the story unfolds from journalism is just as important as the story itself
A truly remarkable accomplishment that deserves to be seen by everybody. This movie will infuriate you though, especially Catholics. Not sure how they have handled the movie, but I suspect not well. The rare film where the true story is so vital, that it's importance actually trumps the outstanding quality of the movie.
Interesting bit on how media gets to the bottom of a scandal and the politics behind it..
Imagine there is a house with 10 rooms. In 9 of the rooms they feed the hungry, educate the uneducated, heal the sick, save souls. BUT In the one remaining they force innocent children to perform perverse sexual acts, crush souls and obstruct justice.  Do you burn down the house?  This is a serious question. DO YOU BURN DOWN THE HOUSE?!  Do you throw open the door and shed light on the diabolical culture that has existed for a period of time only God can quantify?  
Where would our society be without a free and fearless press? Spotlight answers these questions.
Great film on an amazing story. Can be tough for films to create intrigue with a journalism story. Spotlight did it better than I've ever seen it done. Fantastic cast!
This is easily the best journalism movie to date. A based-on-a-true-story movie about the Catholic Church cover-up scandal that intensely examines the tragedy on both sides of the coin - "Spotlight" is a very  palpable, very human film that tastefully retells this appalling story that is still fresh in most people's minds, and what a perfect cast to do so! The casting here could not be better: Mark Ruffalo's best screen performance to date, Michael Keaton (fresh off the heels of his tour de force performance in "Bridman") in one of his most complex roles, Rachel McAdams totally making up for 2015's "Aloha" in a much more mature role, Liev Schreiber and Stanley Tucci own every scene they're in - in short, these actors handle their roles with a faultless amount of subtlety that perfectly pairs with the delicate direction masterfully handled by director Tom McCarthy. This more than makes up for McCarthy's other 2015 film - the Adam Sandler mess "The Cobbler". In fact, after watching both it's almost impossible to tell these were directed by the same person. One of 2015's greatest cinematic achievements, "Spotlight" is an intense, powerful examination of both the church and the journalism team who exposed them against all odds that never devolves into a "let's-bash-the-catholic-church" movie that less apt directors very well could have made it out to be. Fascinating, absorbing film - nearly flawless.
Essential contemporary drama circles and centers on holy threads without exploitation of the audience or real life players.  Produces the holy trinity of movies: excellent writing, direction, and acting.
excellent and thought provoking film..
This is one of my top 3 favorites of 2015. Tom McCarthy delivers a perfectly executed account of The Boston Globe's Spotlight team's investigation into child sex abuse in the Catholic church complete with near-perfect acting, excellent pacing, and a beautifully simple score. This movie has it all.
This is a film that is so well acted and so completing from beginning to end. The writing keeps the drama up from scene to scene and never leans on the maudlin or gratuitous possibilities with in the story to be a crutch in anyway. The momentum of the narrative to propelled by the characters' conviction to get the truth. It is a powerful story and something the world should not forget.  As a journalism film it is perfect. It belongs in the rare company of All the President's Men.
Found this movie very interested. If you like true story movies you will definitely like this one. At the end they show cities and states where these incidents happened after the movie I prayed for the victims and their families. Being a former Catholic who attended Catholic school myself it really touched home. (Deuteronomy 32:35)
The story, and it's awfully real implications, is stronger than the film. What it doesn't reward in visuals it does in solid acting. Still a must-watch, especially for Catholics everywhere.
I just finished watching Spotlight and I am shaking.  I am not exactly sure why, I'm overwhelmed on so many levels - I am angry, I am sad, I am terrified, I am in awe of the art of storytelling in this movie, I am full of admiration for the morality that finally came through to reveal these crimes, and I am embarrassed by the evil that exists in this world perpetrated by selfish heinous humans against our most vulnerable. This movie is one of those movies that will never leave you, it gets in your psyche and colours the world differently - good and bad. 
Mark Ruffalo is fast becoming my favorite actor; he delivers this role with such depth that you barely notice his at-first obvious blatant lack of social skills as the movie progresses.  You start to see a deeper struggle, possibly a long hidden secret, you are transfixed by him, he tears your heart out when he finally explodes. Yet it's all subtle and brilliant.
It's  a difficult movie to watch, not because of vulgar scenes of gross indecencies portrayed but because our mind goes there, whether you want to or not, it plays out in the worst ways in your head. It shows the ugliness without showing one gratuitous act of deprivation. See it, please, and maybe we can all learn to be more accountable to hard truths.
One of the best movies of 2015
Good acting, unbelievable that it was a true story.
Rightly regarded as one of the finest films of 2015, Spotlight is an intelligent and compelling look at one of the biggest deceptions of the 21st century. A witty and often biting script cuts to the core of investigative journalism and the true effects of systemic abuse, and an impeccable cast brings the characters to life. Every actor is on top form, and none more so than Mark Ruffalo. So fantastic as the troubled Hulk in the Avengers, here we seem him truly transforming into a bright, ambitious, resourceful but also emotionally driven and occasionally overzealous reporter. The way he moves, speaks and even his facial expressions, everything he does convinces you that he is 100% invested in this role.
This is certainly a very wordy movie, with much being said and analysed, and often at a rapid pace. But it works because the story is constantly being advanced and new developments are always being made. Issues such as the deep dependence on the Church and the harmful consequences that such a blind faith can have make up the backbone of the story, but the movie never makes the mistake of being a cheap finger poke at religion, fully acknowledging that the issue is the abuse of power employed by those within its ranks, and not the institution itself, that causes the damage. The facts the movie reveals are truly shocking, and its final moments will leave you stunned. Spotlight is a solid piece of cinema, rooted in fact and flowering in the minds of its viewers.
Incredible that this really happened.
This film very respectfully takes on an important yet sensitive subject matter.  It plays like a quality documentary and is streamlined with solid performances by Keaton, McAdams, and notably Ruffalo.
A film with an intelligent plot - at last.
One of the best films of the year so far ...great script , acting,  and gripping story ......and a damning indictment of the Catholic Church's systematic cover up of abuse.
Well done movie 
Story is told in a great way without being super depressing
Uncovering the sins committed by whom the millions of people believe in.

A documentary film would show the real faces of those offenders to shame them. That's the reason I desperately wanted it to be a documentary, then I would have definitely given a maximum mark. There's no complaint about this movie, but adaptation means fakes acting, fake settings and awards goes to non real achievers. Anyway, this movie kind looked a semi documentary and liked the way it was made.

The movie exposed a very important scandal. If something is open for a debate in the US means, the rest of the world would follow the same route. That's where this theme was inspired by. It all begins with a group of journalists from the Boston Globe with their new editor instruct them to research on sexual abuse of children by priests. So their lead only gets bigger and puts them to recover more evidence in order to publish. How they come up with the story that shake up not only the nation, but the entire world is the remaining.

A collection of bunch fine performances. There's no lead actors in this. Everyone is in the supporting roles. Out of 6, it got nominated both male and female in the category of supporting role for the Academy Awards. I am very disappointed, Mark Ruffalo's performance in 'Infinitely Polar Bear' deserved another nominee. Anyway, this 15 year old story still looks a hot topic. It was a great comeback for the director after critics assaulted him with their words for his previous film 'The Cobbler' only to show their rage on Sandler. It is a must-must see. Beware, is is not your weekend entertainer, but based on the real.

8/10
Brilliant and shocking story ! The acting was excellent, not a dud in the bunch, especially liked Liev Schreiber's role, Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo were also riveting. I don't think we understood the scope of the investigating, nor the immensity of the abuse, Spotlight really hits that target. Well done !
Perfect film. The direction by Tom McCarthy is engrossing and intriguing. The scriptwriting absolutely deserves the OSCAR. And the three lead performers? Ruffalo gives a dynamic and commited performance. Keaton is extremely powerful and truly compels the viewer through his refinement onscreen. And McAdams, star of not so impressive films Mean Girls and The Notebook gives an astonishing revelation in a pitch perfect performance. 10/10, my second favourite film of the year after the Revenant.
I can understand why this is compared to All the Presidents Men.  This is one of the most heart wrenching and important movies to come out in a long time. The work the reporters did on this story exposed abuse but also undoubtedly saved lives. No glitz and glamour but an absolute must see.
Very good. Acting was excellent, especially Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo. Obviously I have been following this story for years, but it was fascinating to see what happened behind the scenes to bring it to light. My only complaint is that it dragged a bit about half way through, losing some of its momentum...
Powerful, gripping and intense! What a disgusting scandal they uncovered.  Excellent script with incredible ensemble cast.  Megaton and Ruffalo are superb.
worthy of a best picture nomination!
Good story. Could have been much better. All the president's men without the antagonist
Good movie- everyone played their parts well. Good to bring up a serious issue. Not award worthy though.
Spotlight is an exemplary film. Supremely crafted, expertly performed, and skillfully cut, the movie proves the value of grounded, story-centered cinema in an age where visual effects and noise tend to dominate the scene.
Very strong ensemble performance. The movie just skims the surface of the subject matter. It's really a film about top notch investigative journalism.
gr8 cast highlight this newspaper movie & 2015 best picture nominee dont think it will win though I still hope 'the martian' wins but the academy would never honor a lowly sci-fi movie. also reminded me of several other newspaper pics like 'the paper'
A worthwhile story with an unbeatable cast... that I couldn't help feeling at least a little bored by. WHO'S WITH ME
"If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one." "We're going after the system." Spotlight offers a riveting, multilayered account of a whole community's complicity in the sexual abuse of children by priests. The film features a constellation of acting talent in ensemble format, no divas, everyone pulling terrific weight as hardworking investigative reporters, lawyers who broke the priest abuse story in Boston, as well as tragic turns by victims who spoke out. My former classmate Liev Schrieber plays a new editor who gives the investigation the necessary push, the normally unflappable John Slattery is overworked and gobsmacked, Michael Keaton provides the conflicted center of the team, Mark Ruffalo channels all our outage as the unraveling corruption, and Rachel McAdams' clear-eyed interviewer elicits disarming honesty from victims and perpetrators alike. The truth about buried crimes shatters illusions, opens torrents of hidden grief, and exposes powerful men hidden behind sanctimony, church wealth, and lawyers. Stanley Tucci gives us a terrifically prickly performance as the victims' indefatigable lawyer.
Fascinating  movie about investigative journalism. I honestly prefer it to "All the President's Men."
Excelente pelicula! Me alegro que este nominada a mejor pelicula, son muchos los casos de pederastia por parte de curas y sacerdotes.
Although there is a positive ending, you still can't help but cry. Quite simply, because you can't erase that kind of history. I thoroughly enjoyed the great amount of dialogue and research. The 5 STAR cast and movie.
Taut, beautifully acted and preciously crafted, Spotlight takes one of the darkest subject matters one can imagine and creates something worthy of discussion for years to come.
Tutto okey, davvero, ma un po' più di mordente non avrebbe guastato.
Honestly a little disappointing. It just never felt like it got going...as soon as a scene was going somewhere, it just stopped and moved on to the umpteenth other character or set piece.
Spotlight will win most of the Oscar awards that it is nominated for, because it is a true story, and is powerful enough to literally change the religion of tens of millions of people.

No other movie in history did that, and Hollywood will acknowledge it's power, rewarding itself, as it should.

This movie will have a more dramatic impact on people's lives than any movie ever made, and Hollywood doesn't want to be remembered as the institution that didn't understand that.
Spotlight just won Best Picture and deservedly so, the entire ensemble cast is fantastic and the direction could not have been any better. so yeah, this movie rocks. 4.3/5
http://www.examiner.com/article/spotlight-well-intentioned-but-not-very-compelling-blu-ray
Eerie, disturbing, and chilling Spotlight was a very uncomfortable movie to watch because it revolves around a serious subject of child molestation in the catholic church. Though the film is uncomfortable it was definitely a story that was needed to be told. The one thing that kept me watching the film was the amazing cast of Michael Keaton, Rachael McAdams, Liev Schreiber, and Mark Ruffalo they were all great and it was great to see all of them out of their comfort zones. I didn't think this film deserved best picture but thats just me I thought the film was good just not great, if you are interested in seeing how this scandal was revealed to the world and the struggles that these journalists went through to get the story out to the public than I recommend Spotlight for you but just be aware before watching it that the film is very dark
This is a great film, it should win the Oscar for best film.
Some of the most high profile mostly high profile stories meticulously There has been much speculation that the dissemination through printed materials is rapidly headed for extinction due to the rapid proliferation of web based sources for everything from 24 hour news channels to the online form many magazines and newspapers. Should that day finally appear truly be said because we would have lost a defining quality of our humanity. There are certain stories of such crucial importance that they truly don't seem to be perceived as reality to do read them in a newspaper. There is something about the combinations of senses one receives from opening a newspaper, feeling the pages in your hands the faint odor of newsprint that makes a serious story undeniably real. Both newspapers are so employed some of the best investigative journalist that ever set a bout to relentlessly ferret out every little detail accompanied with painstaking research and fact checking before composing the article. Reading the same story on a webpage inundated with links for celebrity gossip, sites of dubious morality and a pseudo-news of sponsored content just doesn't convey the same gravitas to a newsworthy item. In 2001 elite team of investigative journalist working for the Boston Globe investigated a story that would shake perceptions held by people as to not on the effectiveness of the judicial arm of their government to some of the is ministry practices religion supported by in people extending back well over millennia. The story on public priest accused of being a pedophile that was moved from one parish to another rather than turning them over to the civil authorities for proper adjudication. One of the most horrific aspects of the story is that the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Boston was fully aware of what this priest was doing. This is just one of many cases where as heinous the crime might be what is worse is that people in authority proactively work to conceal it. The movie," Spotlight' details the particulars of the shameful period of history.

Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) no sooner settled into his new position as the editor of the Boston Globe that he made it a point to meet with their group of investigative reporters known as the Spotlight Team. The mandate was to help people who are abusing power or harming people and bring their secrets under the public scrutiny. The Spotlight team was led by the team editor, Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton). The reason why this division of the journalistic staff was held in such high esteem is that in order to meet the criteria of stringent maintain the veracity of the newspaper the stories that the Spotlight Team undertook mostly extremely high profile stories that required a prolonged time of several months to fully investigate and meticulously verify each detail of the stories' allegations. Most recent story they came across an article printed about a lawyer, Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci) that the Archbishop of Boston, Bernard Cardinal Law (Len Cariou) knew that the priest under his authority, John J. Geoghan repeatedly sexually abused young boys and even worse that this was just one case indicative of systemic problem of this nature. By working with an ex-priest work to try to rehabilitate sexual predators in the country the Spotlight Team found that upwards of 90 priests may have been involved in these activities perceptually covered up by the archdiocese.

This is indisputably one of the finest films that have been released in a very long time. Many firms that were obsessively based on true events make extensive use of the license manipulating the facts to be more conducive to the constraints of major motion picture. While undoubtedly some modifications were made reactions from the people involved is made available by interviews regarding this film is that the makers of this movie was meticulous in its crafting as the Spotlight Team will relieve construction of their new stories. The real Walter Robinson restated his amazement at our accurately Michael Keaton captured his persona. It was reported that Mark Ruffalo worked closely with the real Michael Rezendes in order to fine-tune his portrayal to his perfect the representation of the man as possible. The Boston Globe was a culture being helpful in making sure the technical details and sets will correct. Even the Holy See stated that the film was "honest and compelling". When this much praise is provided by the people who actually lived through the events that says a lot about the integrity of the director, screenwriter and cast members that they was motivated by truth as the people they depicted.

Tom McCarthy has been nominated for best director and best writer about the Academy Awards and the Golden Globes. Many are be on him during the upcoming Academy Award ceremonies. He had previously been nominated for best screenplay for the emotionally intense animated feature, 'Up'. For many he may be best-known for his on-screen roles in the television series 'The Wire' and 'Boston Public'. Many actors say the one to get into directing you have actually managed to achieve that goal such magnificent style as Mr. McCarthy. His use of the camera brings the audience intimately into the scene his style is obviously influenced by one of the greatest directors ever to sit behind the camera, Sidney Lumet. McCarthy's visual style utilizes the same kinetic intimacy that effectively removes the camera from the typical position of a voyeur to that of an active participant in the drama. Significant to the amazing success of this film is how this director is able to elicit such incredible performances from his cast. For example in the scenes where Mike Rezendes is interviewing Mitchell Garabedian, the lawyer was understandably reticent to give any details pertaining to wrongdoing that might involve his client. You can feel the dynamic of the relationship on a visceral level is the requisite level of trust is established.

In order to establish a broader scope for the characters, particularly the journalists, McCarthy enlisted the services of Josh Singer. Yet been a major contributor writing teleplays with such well received shows as 'Fringe', 'Law & Order: Special Victims Unit 'and 'The West Wing'. Each of these series received much-deserved acclaim for their ability to retain the focus on character development while building stories that frequently depicted complicated plot points. This background paid him highly suited to share the writing credit for this film. This largely male-dominated test there is one actress who distinguishes itself by her contribution of a performance that is so deeply sensitive that it helps to give a voice to the victims of the abuse. She portrayed space Sacha Pfeiffer, a reporter who was assigned the emotionally intense test of interviewing the survivors of this reprehensible sexual abuse. All of these performances dovetail together so well that every single frame this film is captivating, mesmerizing the audience with the seriousness of the charges never losing sight that this story will rock some individuals shaking their most trusted object of faith, the Catholic Church.
'Spotlight' is a must watch.... Don't miss.....
One of the best movie in last few years . The substantial information portrayed  in the film is ground breaking , a definitely to be told story and a awesome cast. If #Deadpool is about breaking the 4th wall , then #Spotlight is about breaking the system .
A tremendous cast performance and a very good script keep this interesting as the grind of a long form investigation and the distasteful nature of the subject matter grind at the reporters.
It is not fun to watch a lot of this film and it is not what I would call simple entertainment.
But it is an important film to see to note the bewilderment as the scope of the corruption of the catholic church comes to light.
It's a must see.
Wish these guys have the gut to cover Hilliliar, like they covered these priest. # No respect for media bias.
La "temporada de Oscar" siempre trae grandes películas. Casi siempre ganan las hechas con el molde que la Academia le gusta (medio iguales año tras año y con gran campaña de marketing a sus espaldas), pero siempre quedan películas muy buenas. Spotlight es una de ellas. La historia (basada en hechos reales) es monstruosa: una investigación periodística del Boston Globe sobre como la iglesia históricamente encubre casos de abuso sexual de niños por parte de sacerdotes. La película da pocos momentos para descansar. Es una avalancha de información, muy dinámica. No da respiros como para actuaciones gigantescas, pero es un puzzle armado de forma brillante que deja por los suelos a la iglesia (personalmente me encantan las películas anti-iglesia). Este es uno de esos casos en que más o menos sabes en que terminará todo, por lo que más que el objetivo importa el camino para llegar a él (como muchas cosas en la vida).

Estas son las películas que deberían ganar Oscar. De todas maneras recuérdenlo, el próximo Dgo gana Revenant pq así es la academia, van como medio desfasados con el zeitgeist y tienden a premiar más marketing que buenas películas. Dicho en otros términos, Spotlight tiene crítica brillante frente a Revenant. Por eso es que la lista de grandes no-ganadoras del Oscar (ejemplos: Pulp fiction, Social network, Secreto en la montaña, Boyhood) se siente mucho más sólida que su contraparte ganadora (Forrest Gump, El discurso del rey, Crash, Birdman.
This is a true masterpiece of investigative journalism. Slightly less tense than the palpable terror of Bernstein and Woodwward in "All The Presidents Men" this expose uncovers a truly despicable. amoral, and damning confirmation that the Catholic Church is The Pedophile Palace hidden neatly in the folds of Religion that control the masses of their naive and fearful flock inciting the wrath of God if they speak out. And no better place full of scared Catholics than Boston. No need to rehash the plot or its extraordinary cast  but, the most impressive aspect to the film is that Liev Schrieber, in a twist of sheer poetic justice, gets his revenge in this film from his role as Ray Donovan - something EVERYONE one should see as the defacto story of sexual abuse by he Catholic church and the lingering effects it's abuses has on countless victims. Don't miss this Spotlight special.
One of my favorite films of 2015. Full review on berkreviews.com
Really superb- excellent performances from the entire cast (particularly Ruffalo, Schreiber and Keaton), well paced, touching and profound. A much needed reminder that celibacy is unnatural and harmful, and that allowing *any* organisation to have too much influence on the courts, the press and communities is dangerous - the church very much included.
Using subtlety for its greatness, Spotlight handles a delicate topic with stellar acting and writing from director McCarthy.
Seeing this movie makes one appreciate the kind of hard work and commitment a true journalist has in order to serve his community. A very emotional film that stays true to Boston Globe's purpose of shedding light to what is a controversial issue surrounding one of the most powerful institutions in the world.
A strong cast doing a true story justice in a well-directed film.

"Newsroom" type shows and movies are at the top of my list, but this film was invigorating enough to keep me attentive the whole time.
a real story of journalists who honor their profession. Solid direction and good actors.  I am always impressed by Michael Keaton and his ability to assume different roles.  Still I don't think this movie deserves an Oscar
4.5/5
True stories have never been quite so intense, and even from from the point of view of journalists. The film understands its importance and so do the actors who all give great performances, and it overall shines in every department and it manages to impact in just the way it intends to.
Um exemplo de um bom argumento e o elenco subaproveitado.
It handles its though subject with a sort of grace that wouldn't be achieved without its stellar cast, a firm direction and a story that no screenwriter would've the guts to invent it.
Spotlight is exactly the kind of movie that critics love and audiences may find a little boring. The story, obviously, is one that needed to be told.  The acting ensemble all capably perform.  However, even though the stakes were high and the subject matter is certainly infuriating, I still felt a sense of detachment, perhaps because the protagonists are reporters with no connection to their story.  In a way, I felt like I was reading about a story more than experiencing it, which is what I usually expect from a film.
Granted I haven't seen all of the nominated movies...but I can't see many recent films being as carefully constructed as Spotlight (tho Brooklyn is way good as well). The tireless journalism and teamwork it took to bring this story to fruition is the kind of writing that inspired me to major in journalism. Pity most papers don't have the resources to devote to this type of in depth reporting.
[Original version that I typed on 11/22/15 but forgot to post on RT] 
Imagine dusting/digging the ground and finding a bit of a fossil. You're all excited, you think you have it all figured out and then you realize that the fossil is part of a limb, which is a part of a whole animal that you'd never have guessed to uncover. In a way, that's kind of what "Spotlight" is about. You have that guy who played Cotton from "Scream" become the boss of Michael Keaton's journalism team for the Boston Globe (featuring the Hulk, I mean, Mark Ruffalo) and decides that the team should pick up [report on] a case about a priest. Well, since this is based on true events, I think I'm safe to say that one thing leads to another--Ruffalo and the others meet up with abuse victims, crooked lawyers, clergy members, etc--and the story picks up like a wildfire after the film's first act. The team is now basically in conflict in the church as their list of suspected dirty priests blows up from one to eighty seven. The Catholic Church in this movie gets, like, a "mafia-esque" treatment with talks about under-the-rug settlement cases, public legal documents being removed, the church not firing bad priests and moving them to different parishes instead, and how the Church "goes after" people who try to make them look bad. And there's often shots where characters might be discussing traumatic past experiences or something and the camera pans out a bit, and what's in the background? A church, I mean, the filmmakers definitely do a remarkable job at giving the church this looming presence like "they're down the street, they're your next door neighbors, they're everywhere." The film ends with a text that the team found about 1,000 victims and named over 200 priests (JUST in Boston) who had molested kids, and then there's a list of cities in the U.S and other countries where the clergy have abused children. That's important to know because people tend to forget the victims and that's just not okay. In fact, that might even be why the problem persists today, I haven't looked into the actual statistics but Wikipedia says that the number is declining. I have my doubts, I think the Church is still covering for their members. The Boston Globe printed this story in 2002 (or so they say in the film). These accusations go back who knows how further back AND since then, a 2014 article by the BBC said that the U.N accused the Vatican of "systematically adopting policies that allowed priests to sexually abuse thousands of children." The Church (the hierarchy or what have you) has a history of not reporting these crimes, they did nothing for decades. These are facts. Not my biased opinion. And they're startling. They are startling in the movie and they're even scarier when you think about the real world issue--how long it's persisted, how many victims are out there, and that it still happens. These scandals are worldwide, they go beyond just the Catholic Church (other Christian denominations and other religions have seen their fair share of 'the nasty'), and....well, it's all part of "the plan," right? There was this one lady behind me, or a few seats behind me, she had a very strong reaction to the film, she was talking a lot, and when the movie ended she asked, "what would Jesus do?" The answer is simple: God/Jesus/[insert any deity that is claimed to be all loving and all knowing] wouldn't have let it happen AND he wouldn't let it continue, but, he did and he does. And all that that implies. Anyways, back to the movie: the performances are good (the actors who played the adult victims were really good), it starts a bit slow but goes from zero to sixty after the half hour mark or so, Mark Ruffalo owns this one scene where his character expresses his frustrations, and there were some tense-y scenes moments that I really liked. 
P.S Yes, I was raised catholic. No, I am not catholic any more nor will I ever be. The funny thing is that I watched a documentary and that was when I started to not believe or whatever. To be frank, I'm not even sure why the documentary had that particular effect on me--it's clear to me, at least now, that it was full of bullshit. Fun fact: I actually did consider becoming a muslim for a very, very short period of time. Yeah, I was like that Pi kid from "Life of Pi"--searching for God or whatever. I did end up getting a sign from the divine, though. This is true, I swear on my life, I watched Godzilla last year and I converted right away. Godzilla watches over me; he's my lord and savior. He actually saves people, sure, he might stomp through a city, but it's the greater good that counts. Allah/God/and all them seem more content with playing games and "testing" folks, man, G-zilla don't play around 'cuz he ain't no Joke.
One of the best films I've seen in years. I found myself doing research on the topic for days after seeing it.
Great portrayal of what happened. I was too young to pay attention to the details of this story. So to watch this movie you really feel how heartbreaking it truly was. And the Boston Globe's courage to investigate the scandal of the Catholic Church was impressive since it wielded so much power over society.
The blurb above says it all
Great movie all around.
8.3/10, my review: http://wp.me/p1eXom-2fx
Spotlight is a terrifically scripted and performed journal thriller. The actors never seem like they want to overshadow the other, but instead all work towards the common goal of the film's story. A true contender for Best Picture. Rating: 82
A super important movie; however, it could have been so much better. I think the screenplay was modeled after a newspaper article, which is artistically very interesting. But because of this, the screenplay lacked emotion and it did not give its characters the opportunities to shine dramatically. I don't understand either acting Oscar nomination, but I don't blame the actors. No matter what, the content is strong and the movie is definitely worth seeing!!
Amazing eye opening film. A must-see.
While the point of this movie is deep, moving, and exceptionally important (religious priests molesting kids for decades, if not centuries), I felt that the movie itself was too slow moving. Nonetheless, it brings the point across of evil within the hearts of humanity.
Well told and well acted.
Powerful movie, sad story. A must see.
Phenomenal, superb, best drama I've seen in a few years.
Graced with a wonderful cast, Spotlight is a well-crafted movie about a story worth telling
Grippingly Dark, Spotlight's Direction, Screenplay And Ensemble Is Phenomenal And Sentimental.
A compelling true story and strong performances make Spotlight an engaging, thought-provoking drama.
Riveting and heartbreaking
Rachel McAdams marries a bald guy? Lol yea right.
A scintillating investigative factbased shocking story with a first-rate casting
Best movie of the year!
Tedious and Boring, mostly
A film about investigative journalism stylized like a Paul Greengrass Thriller; meaning that it's mostly detail driven. There are a ton of names and specific technicalities in the investigation to keep on top of. This may turn people off but it's gripping from beginning to end and very fair in the way it portrays its characters.
Michael Keaton should've been nominated too.
This film is superb. Tom McCarthy's direction is incredible due to his ability to make all of the moving parts and information thrown at you easy to follow. Every performance in this movie is fantastic and it's very fresh to see Michael Keaton play this kind of role. The best film of 2015 in my humble opinion.
I had heard a lot about this movie before I watched it, but the hype was well deserved. The movie is based on real events and at times I forgot I was watching a movie. The frustration while watching the movie was incredibly real. The climax of the movie was a scene where Mark Ruffalos character has an emotional outburst in front of his colleagues. That scene is why I like to watch movies.

Incredible performances by everyone in the movie, especially Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo. 100% Worth the watch and definitely a deserving nominee for the major movie awards.
Subtle but gripping. Lacked high points but still great. A well-timed reality check/reminder too.
I have to say that I was slightly let down by this movie.  Maybe because you know how it ends makes it more difficult to build excitement which is partially because of the subject matter but also comes down to the script and the editing.  I just didn't feel the depth of the character's personal feelings once they found out just how large the scandal was and I think showing that in a more convincing way would have turned this from a good movie to a great one.  The most compelling part of the movie was the epilogue just before the titles.  That tells you something.
Very good. Powerful and upsetting. Really great performances from an amazing cast.
The same man that made The Cobbler made this. Try to wrap your mind around that. The Cobbler is so Razzie worthy that it hurts, while Spotlight will be sure to win a few Oscars (at least several nominations). These two films were only made a year apart. That has got to be one of the biggest turnarounds in cinematic history. What a great recovery. Thomas McCarthy, you sir have redeemed yourself.
This is probably the best movie about journalism I have ever seen. Some gut-wrenching dialogues and performances. Mark Ruffalo deserves to win an oscar!
Deserving of the Best Picture award. The credits at the end showing how many areas and countries that have had priests abusing their positions of power and trust to commit acts of paedophilia is absolutely shocking. It's questionable how people can continue to practise Catholicism given the cover up has always come from the top down. Sometimes the belief of the faith is unnecessary without a so-called representative of god and all the elaborate rites and rituals that go along with it. Life is a test enough. There is no need for humans to be tested by those in positions of trust.
A thoroughly engaging, impeccably acted drama that keeps you on the edge of your seat throughout, and shows the very real, palpable struggles the press has to face to go against an authority as established as the Catholic Church.
the movie was great, very well done. I found it to be very show for ny personal taste, and the subject matter revolved around a hot button subject for me.
HE or SE? I dont know.
Une pléiade d'acteurs aussi bons les uns que les autres. Après Birdman, Keaton brille toujours autant dans ce qui s'avère être son rôle le plus compliqué à ce jour. Mark Rufallo quant à lui est époustouflant de sincérité dans le rôle de Michael Rezendes qu'il incarne, rôle qui, pour moi, est le plus grand de sa carrière. Spotlight est donc un film éblouissant, racontant une horreur sans nom avec justesse et respect pour les nombreuses victimes.
harrowing in parts and extremely well acted
A masterclass in subtlety.


Well it took me a few months, but I finally got around to watching Spotlight. I don't think I could have seen this film soon enough. Director Tom McCarthy crafted an absolute master piece here. Watching this film I experienced shock, disgust, anger, and bewilderment. But McCarthy didn't force these emotions upon me. No, he did the exact opposite, and that is what is so brilliant about this film.

Spotlight is based on a true story and chronicles a team of journalists working for The Boston Globe who investigate widespread systematic child sexual abuse within the confines of the Catholic church. Through their investigation they come into contact with several victims of abuse, as well as lawyers and members of the Catholic clergy that helped cover up these awful events.

Knowing that the content in this film actually occurred in real life horrified me. McCarthy is absolutely aware of the fact that this is how much of the audience will feel when they watch this film. McCarthy knows this is a true story, and he uses that to his absolute advantage in his directorial style. Everything about this film is so subdued and real. Watching this didn't feel like watching a movie. It felt like watching a documentary, and I mean that in the best way possible.

McCarthy revels in the mundane with Spotlight. This could have easily turned into a generic thriller, fabricating events to play up the drama of the entire situation, trying to show the Catholic church go after the team of journalists as they continue to uncover more and more of the church's disgusting secrets. But no, McCarthy doesn't do that. Instead he focuses on the small quiet moments between the investigators and victims of abuse, as well as the frustrations they go through when trying to navigate legal red tape. There is no real danger or threat to the protagonists of this film. These journalists aren't heroes, they are simply a group of people doing their job, trying the best they can to bring these horrific acts to light.

Because this story feels so real and authentic, the stories of child abuse and the Catholic Church's cover up are so much more powerful than if McCarthy had over dramatized the situation. The outrage I felt watching Spotlight is unlike anything I have ever felt watching a film before.This is especially punctuated by the fact that this film has no real emotional outbursts or catharsis of its own, sans one or two scenes where it felt absolutely justified. It allows the audience to feels these emotions on their own, instead of showing it to them. Everything about this film is understated, and that is what makes it so effective.

This muted style of McCarthy translates to equally subdued performances from the cast, and everyone knocks it out of the park. Mark Ruffalo gives a standout performance, transforming into the character of Michael Rezendes, so much so that at times I honestly forgot that I was watching Ruffalo portray a character, I was that invested in his story. The same can be said for the rest of the cast as well. Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, and Stanley Tucci all give equally great performances, but none of them completely disappear into their character quite like Ruffalo did. There is no real  Everyone plays off each other so well that I did not feel like I was watching a group of actors giving amazing performances, I felt I was watching a group of real people dealing with a real and horrific situation.

The cinematography in the film is nothing spectacular, it's actually quite ordinary. This works in the context of the film however, as it continues to reinforce McCarthy's  remarkable ability to show restraint in his directing. There are no real directorial flourishes you would find in this film if someone like a David Fincher or Danny Boyle had directed it. Like everything else in this film, the way it shot is indistinct, if unremarkable, preventing any distraction from the events that are taking place in the film, and giving focus to the real life consequences of the film.

The film captures something so raw and real that by the end of it when the credits roll, and it lists all the cities in the world that have been effected by Catholic cover ups I was left speechless. This film had such an effect on me that I'm still reeling from it even as I write this review. I absolutely loved this film, but I'm not sure if I can say that it is an enjoyable experience.
Wow just wow. Go and see this film.
Definitely worth a watch due to its honest portrayal of the Boston Globeâ??s â??Spotlightâ?? team - who uncovered the shocking story of child abuse throughout the Catholic Church.  Itâ??s a sinister and disgusting truth that is told with sincerity and integrity.  Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Live Schreiber and Stanley Tucci are all on excellent formâ?¦with one caveat.   They are just cogs in the story and, as characters, arenâ??t really interesting in themselves.  Therefore, even though this is finely crafted film, it runs a bit flat.  I appreciated that it wasnâ??t â??Hollywoodizedâ?? and kept real but I wonder if it wouldâ??ve work better as a documentary.  Still, it needed to be told.
An extremely fine movie that tells of the incredible investigative journalists who helped to expose deeply disturbing history of systemic child abuse at the hands of paedophile members of the clergy, the Catholic Church's efforts to continually cover up the issue.
Simply one, if not the finest piece of cinema that I have ever seen.
Scary stuff.
This determined newspaper team led to Worldwide investigations in abuse by Roman Catholic priests.
Fantastic. 
Everyone should see this.
Informative, intense, thought-provoking, eye-opening, and courageous film. 5 stars out of 5.
cinegeek.de Eine Zeitungsmeldung in Boston aus dem Jahr 2002: Über Jahre erlaubte die Kirche den Priestern die Misshandlung von Kindern. Verfasst von Michael Rezendes, einem Mitglied des Spotlight Teams war der Artikel der Beginn einer Reihe von Enthüllungen. Kardinal Bernard Law musste sich schliesslich öffentlich entschuldigen und bekam als "Strafe" eine Position in Rom, dort wo er heute noch arbeitet. Tom McCarthys Film Spotlight folgt den Ereignissen, die Boston erschütterten. Spotlight ist einer der grössten Journalisten Filme geworden und darf sich einreihen in die Liste der Klassiker des Genres. Angeführt wird das Spotlight Team von Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) und den drei Reportern Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) und Matty Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James). Alle Reporter kommen aus Boston und haben selbst irgendwelche Verbindungen zur katholischen Kirche. Ins Rollen wird die Geschichte gebracht von einem Mann, der nicht aus Boston kommt: Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber). Er stösst auf mögliche Vertuschungen und beruft das Spotlight Team in sein Büro. Wir lernen den privaten Hintergrund der Journalisten kennen. Sie alle gehören zu der Sorte Mensch, die mehr Zeit mit den Kollegen verbringen als mit den eigenen Familien. Es sind Leute, die wir kennen und verstehen. Zunächst liegt der Fokus auf dem Priester John J. Geoghan, der Jahre zuvor Kinder missbrauchte. Früh wird aber auch deutlich, dass es sich hier um mehr als nur einen faulen Priester handelt. Den Journalisten wird bewusst, dass sie es mit einem organisierten System von Korruption zu tun haben. Es stellt sich die Kardinalfrage: Wusste Bernard Law davon? Während Sacha und Michael die Opfer der Kirche interviewen, erleben wir die Stadt Boston: Wir tauchen ein in verschiedene stark voneinander abgegrenzte Bezirke, "Klassen". Die Strassen von Boston wirken noch so, als ob die Kolonialzeit nie geendet hätte. Hier sitzen die Männer zusammen, trinken Kaffee oder essen Hot Dog und sprechen über die Arbeit. Obwohl ich nie in Boston war, wirkt das Szenrario auf mich echt und das ist wichtig. Der Film geht einer tieferen Wahrheit nach. Hier wird nicht nur das Trauma der Opfer aufgearbeitet, sondern der gesamten Gemeinde. Vertrauen und Glauben ist der Schlüssel zum Film, den McCarthy sehr ernst nimmt. Mark Ruffalo verkörpert das wie kein Zweiter, wenn er wie ein Wahnsinniger in die kirchlichen Gemächer vordringt; er der selbst vor Jahren seinen Glauben verlor. Spotlight wird hier zu einem Rache Film. Nicht zuletzt wird auch deutlich, wie wichtig guter Journalismus ist. Spotlight mit all seinem Leid und seiner Dringlichkeit wirkt da wie ein notwendiger Aufruf!
A must see film for those who are curious about the power of organized religions.
Grade: C+ (66%)
Rating: 6.6/10 - Not Bad
Great story. Particularly being from Boston and knowing people who worked at the Boston Globe or who were members of parishes that were led by abusive priests made this all the more significant. A proud moment for journalism for the Globe.
So very slow.  Potentially interesting story but too slow to be engaging. We walked out half way through.
Start to finish one of the best acted/directed movies of 2015.
Great cast, great script, incredible story, but didn't hit the spot for me. I found myself bored and drifting away in places. I thought Michael Keaton was fab, solid and added a touch of class. I just wanted to hit Mark Ruffalo in the face with a shovel. He played the journalist as so thick, he sounded more like a punch drunk "Rocky" character than a competant journalist. I know its against the grain, but too many irritants to ruin the tension. It should have been fantastic, and I so much wanted it to be, but it just didn't do it for me.
Really interesting film based on a true story, amazing what the power of the press can do!
Absolutely impressive! Based on the awful pedophilia scandals in Boston and the cover-ups of the Catholic Church. It left me cold and I really hope this will be the BEST PICTURE ACADEMY AWARD WINNER.
This is why I chose to believe in God and that's it! No Catholicism.
Sólido, forte e impecável.
i haven't seen any other performances in the supporting actor category yet, but i have to say that ruffalo's performance stood out to me the most in this film and i congratulate him on his acting chops once again. honestly besides what they're trying to uncover, i wasn't so much excited watching this film. i found it to be a little boring and it could've went another route, however i do think this is an important film. this films shows that, because it's religion, people can get away with heinous crimes and it's covered up. the very end shocked me when it named all the cities and places where the cover up happened. it's disgusting and appalling. you can't say you have great morals with a god and use your religion to cover up the destroying of innocence of young boys. it's awful.
Mark Ruffalo deserves an Oscar for this performance. The movie is well made and doesn't attempt to make its protagonists heroes, which I love. Michael Keaton also knocks it out of the park.
Spotlight is the perfect example of how a story should be told. Casting, performances, and writing were beyond great.
Using the film's solemn tone and pace, Spotlight creates a canvas on which the excellent portrayal of investigative journalism is slowly unravelled onto by the actors. And leaving the film on somewhat of a cliffhanger only makes for a more though-provoking effect that will stay with audiences for a while yet.
Solid, grim, necessary journalism-procedural with a note-perfect cast. No real twists or surprises or any depth in character or but efficient and absorbing most of the time. Mark Ruffalo stands out but Rachel McAdams has little to do. One of Michael Keaton's best performances. Two very affecting scenes in an otherwise matter of fact film, when one victim and one journalist crack up and question their faith.
No sabía mucho de la historia en la que ésta película está basada, asi que antes de verla investigué así poder verla más informado.

Todos deberían ver ésta película. La corrupción dentro de la iglesia es algo muy bien sabido, incluso dentro de los cristianos, pero ver la crueldad de la historia con tus propios ojos es algo muy fuerte.

Cuando al final pusieron todas las ciudades donde hubo casos de violaciones de sacerdotes a niños me entristecí muchísimo al ver que Argentina fue MUY mencionada.  

Pero lo que más me entristece es que la gente siga defendiendo a la Iglesia o digan que ha cambiado. La iglesia sigue siendo la misma, con o sin un nuevo papa.

No tengo nada en contra de la religión, pero ser parte de un sistema corrupto y defenderlo es algo que yo y la mayoría de las personas del mundo no podemos aceptar.
"Do ya do hard news? Do ya? Huh?" Well, these "Boston Globe" reporters sure do... at least they way they are depicted here as they literally and figuratively chase a story about dirty priests and how the Catholic Church covered it all up. I'm not sure journalists even exist anymore, but this is a nice Oscar-begging time capsule for kids to watch and see what a newsroom was. Would I watch this again? Nah... I'm waiting for the article. Inverted pyramid, please.
Another issue orientated Oscar contender with a great ensemble cast (interestingly, the less famous faces playing the victims are more touching and authentic than original Batman and the latest Hulk even though in general they were all very good - though what Rachel McAdams did to get nominated is a headscratcher to me), but with the subject matter being the sex abuse scandal and the decades long cover-up by the Catholic Church, this is a much more serious film, sincerely made but never over-sentimentalize or over-glorifies the journalistic pursuit for the truth. At times, the film is so plain and matter-of-fact, in its attempt to reflect what happens in reality as opposed to giving it the Hollywood treatment in the name of entertainment, it can come across as a little flat. But this thankfully doesn't detract from the power of the film and the underplayed finale only serves to provide not just a satisfying ending but also underline the fact that there are no winners here, only victims who need their stories told.
Spotlight gets under your skin and into your mind in the best (and worst) of ways.
Fascinating movie. Fantastically acted and gripping direction. Makes you realise that the real world is often far darker than fiction.
Brilliant and truly shocking.
Fácilmente de las mejores películas basadas en historia real, consigue que habitual investigación periodística lejos de ser aburrida resulte absorbente y emocionante haciendo justicia a los hechos en que se basa.
Bold on subject, mature in content , this fact based story is disturbing throughout even without any graphic violence. Just like the movie title the powerful cast steals the show. The movie ends with Stanley Tucci asking the kids how are thy doing and they all reply 'good' and that's the most haunting thing that they are not aware of what had happened to them and they cope up. As the end credits roll on, the facts shown are further more disturbing.
ni u jednom trenutku ne skrece od svoje odvazne i relevantne namere, masivno priznanje za to
Excellent movie with a perfect cast of wonderful actors. One of the best films of 2015 with a compelling yet disgusting story of child abuse by the church representatives.
- the Vatican has a serious problem.

That, ofcourse, is the largest of under-statements; however, it is all too true in scope and candor.

This film focuses on a systemic breach of trust between an institution and its faithful over a period of time spanning decades. That this story happened in Boston is a perfect location for the depth of just how heart rendering the big reveal turned out to be.

This is the best ensemble cast I have seen in years. Everyone in this film brings their A game. Some bring a little too much, but hey - everybody knew that this film had Oscar written all over it. Michael Keaton is on a winning streak right now and I am proud of where Batman is at this point in his career. Mark Ruffalo definitely dives into a role that will be a very defining one for his career. 

...and then there is the fact that everyone else in this movie give us their all while not really trying to outdo one another. But the story of how these journalists got to the bottom of things is the real star. That's the point: hard core, true-to-life, investigative journalism. They weren't worried about clicks on a website. They weren't worried about being sensational to get views on a TV show. They focused on getting the real, unadulterated truth. That's the biggest triumph of Spotlight.

...that's why it won...
Powerful and very well put together.
You need to stop what you are doing right now and watch this film.  It's a heavy subject matter to be sure, but it restored my faith in responsible journalism.  These heroes did not just change Boston with their story, they changed the world.  "The light shines in the darkness" - even when (and especially when) that Darkness finds its way into the church.  Grade A+.
Oh, yeah. Engrossing, never boring movie. True story makes it awesome content to experience. Acting impresarios abound in this film. Worth every minute of your time!
It's a well told story that's as inspiring as it is troubling. It not only shows that evil can be in the most unexpected places, but that there are also people committed to exposing that truth. The acting, writing, and over all direction seemed great to me.
Buena película para ver. Nada del otro mundo, pero buena.
a crime story without the crime, atmospheric shot of Boston
Supurb! Best film I have seen in a year or more and I've seen a lot of films. Tissues at the ready though!
Should of have been a documentary - there was no suspense
In the same class  for me as "All the Presidents Men", honest , Frank, and  a revealing insight into conspiracy and collusion in a modern society  led any a convincing , committed group of journalists and a driving Editor understated playing by Liev Schreiber.
Difficult subject matter but excellent film
An excellently acted and well written telling of a harrowing story. This is not your typical recreation or based on true events film. It's moving and deep, looking into the lives of those affected by the scandal and those who uncovered it. Great performances all round.
Reasonably good in most aspects, Spotlight is truly driven by some of the best acting performances seen in quite some time, and manages to reflect its important story in a meaningful way. 90%
Great story. Gripping stuff. Really enjoyed this film.
"Spotlight" tells the true story of the 2001 investigation by the Boston Globe into the Catholic Church's child molestation scandal. ("Spotlight" is the name of the Globe's investigative reporting team.) 

The story begins with Marty Baron (Liev Shreiber) taking over as the Globe's new editor.  At the time, there was a minor case alleging that an archbishop named Cardinal Law was engaged in a cover-up in which he shuffled priests accused of pedophilia from parish to parish while continuing to allow them to work with children. While such rumblings were nothing new, the paper had never really pursued them in deference to Boston's powerful Catholic Church. But Baron, being a Jewish outsider, instructs the team to launch an all-out investigation. 

Normally I'm not a big docudrama fan but this movie feels a lot more "docu" than drama. I had a little bit of a hard time keeping all of the names straight and got tripped up just about every time someone mentioned Cardinal Law, thinking it was some sort of legal term. 

Though the legal maneuverings involving sealed documents are somewhat interesting, the movie is at its best when the victims tell their stories. Mark Ruffalo is particularly good as one of the reporters and Rachel McAdams is pretty convincing as well. The beauty of this film is that despite being jam-packed with big name Hollywood stars, all of the performances are all low-key and believable.

This is one of those rare times when walking into the theater with low expectations really paid off for me.  "Spotlight" is both educational and engrossing, as any good documentary should be. The fact that it's actually a drama makes this quite a feat.
Airplane movie. Great actors.
Worth all the awards it has either been nominated for or won. The cover up that was exposed is deplorable... every Catholic should watch it.
Taking a fairly uninteresting story and trying to make it interesting through artificial plot points meant to create suspense.  The scene where the church's records are released but they don't have access to a copy machine... Really?
A great journalistic film about institutional child sexual assault.
Brilliant, frustrating and sad but important. Mark Ruffalo great as always :)
Excellent. Great film in the style of "All The Presidents Men".
An incredibly important subject performed by a very strong cast of which Ruffalo is probably the standout.
Breaking news, the Catholic Church covered up sexual abuse by priests for years. What? You already knew that? Yeah, so did the rest of the world so this whole film seemed a bit pointless to me. The story of the reporters who uncovered the story in Boston is well acted but I just didn't find them that fascinating, when the real story really was huge and has had huge repercussions for the Church for years since. In the face of the suffering of the victims and the hypocrisy of the Church, the reporters' story just didn't seem that thrilling to me.
With no surprises or big reveals, Spotlght chugs along crossing all the Ts and making us feel like we're part of the exploration. An impeccable cast with tone perfect writing and acting...this is a "must see" this year and while it might not be able to overtake the favorites for Oscar...it's a very solid movie and an important look into the value of a working paper for investigative journalism.
Led by good performances under the acceptable work of Tom McCarthy, a well paced script that never relies on glorifying or vilifying its "heroes" and "villains", and an outstandingly well documented setting, "Spotlight" works as a politically correct film in spite of lacking emotional resonance, as any good article,  and may fail to attract other audiences.
An excellent performance on such a troubling topic.
great movie!   based on the true story of the Boston Globe's investigation into the cover up of abuse in the catholic church
True Oscar contender. Mark R has a great part and had me enthralled. Made me cry at times at just how corrupt systems can be to protect establishments that are failing at the cost of innocent lives. Beautifully told with clarity and passion
I didn't like it.  Slow pace, old story.Mark Ruffalo's performance was poor.
Una muy buena narración, con actuaciones mesuradas pero poderosas.
Exceptionally good.  Rare.    Life changing.
Spotlight is essential viewing for two reasons. It's an important subject that needs airing and it also a film of superb writing and acting. Set in 2001 at the offices of the Boston Globe, Spotlight is an investigative team that painstakingly researches stories. After a new editor comes to the paper they dig into rumours of priestly sexual abuse over decades. What they find is a landmine of abuse and cover up. This is a quietly powerful film that slowly ratchets up the drama. It is understated and lets the story do the work. A fine cast leads the way with Schreiber and Keaton especially shining. In the end I found it very sad, the story of abuse is damning and profound. This fine film is also an ode to journalism. An art that is seemingly dying.
really good drama. great insight into how the journalism process goes from A-Z.
Relatively simple at its core - although some of the dialogue gets hard to follow in places. excellent acting throughout. very very compelling when the 'survivors' start to tell their stories. one thing it doesn't really explain is what the church's reaction is to the story (other than moving the main bad priest to The Vatican!)
A very solid, unshowy film about the Boston Globe Spotlight team's uncovering of child abuse and decade-long cover-ups by Boston clergy and beyond. It's all very matter-of-fact and not...Sorkin-fied, if you know what I mean. The story is the story, and not too much time is spent on twists and turns or embellished personal lives of the reporters. Dependably steady director Tom McCarthy is the master of affecting but not affected human stories. 

I'm a little surprised though that Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo are nominated for Best Supporting Oscars and that the entire cast took home the SAG Ensemble Acting prize. True, Rachel McAdams was very natural in her role, but the role was a bit small and pedestrian. Not that she or it needed to be a flashier, intrepid Lois Lane type, but she and it lacked a bit of energy methinks. Mark Ruffalo is fine, but he seemed to compensate for his ordinary character by outfitting him with an Aspergerian slouch, speech impediment, and quirk of always putting his hands in his pockets. His big angry moment was also a bit forced. I honestly thought Michael Keaton and Brian D'Arcy James were better in their higher stakes supporting roles.

All in all, a good issues movie that puts the plight of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests, other victims yet to come forward, and unfortunately, those yet to become victims, in the spotlight.
What a well done movie.  Such an important topic to cover, so very scary to know the scope of this problem is so huge and common.  Mark Ruffalo was incredible!!  He fully deserves the nomination, if not the award for best supporting actor!
They somehow made the act of journalism compellingly.
Truly exceptional.  Similar to watching The Da Vinci Code, but with the added fact that it's based on a true story, and all of the cover-ups were real.  Highly entertaining in the moment.  Thought provoking for days afterwards.
This is the story of how the story that had a millenary institution face its most terrible sins was made. An impressive journalistic thriller, in crescendo from the beginning until the very end. #oscars
A testament to the power of simply great storytelling. Spotlight doesn't try to reinvent the wheel. It's not flashy, subversive, meta, or overly-artistic. In some ways (such as cinematography) it's almost by-the-numbers. Even the music by Howard Shore is incredibly restrained. The movie rests on the script and the actors performances, everything from the cinematography, editing, and music take a back seat to and point all our attention to the acting and story and boy, does this cast deliver. 

It's a reminder of the simplicity of just good storytelling. The script is fantastic, handling delicately an already delicate situation, giving a voice to victims, never becoming vulgar, or even glamorizing the protagonists completely. 

A solid, excellent film.
Just the tip of the iceberg!
...I don't know...with this great plotline and cast, I was expecting something better...a bit boring in my opinion.
Excellent...involving and worthwhile
The film has a great, well-written narrative structure as well a strong ensemble cast, however it does get weary and dry at times and I begin checking my watch too often.
Gran ritmo, te mantiene siempre atento!
Like an all the presidents men for a pre-millenial generation. disappointed Ruffalo isn't in real contention for his great performance
Could have been much better. Amazing subject though.
Boring. See The Big Short for editing, sound design and direction to juice things up. The fact that story is of tremendous importance doesn't mean this film is automatically of the same importance. It could have been done a bit better.
Whoops, saw this last week.  Great story and an incredible cast that works really well together, but the standout was clearly the Oscar-nominated Mark Ruffalo.  I don't think I've seen anyone else give a better performance for 2015.  The movie overall though is also easily one of my best for the year.
Absolutely incredible story and acting. One of the most captivating movies I've seen.
Spotlight is an interesting look at the process of investigative journalism conducted by the reporters of the Boston Globe. The subject was the major lift of the veil of the crimes by priests in the Catholic church. I found it interesting. Most definitely top honors go to Mark Ruffalo, Liev Schreiber, and Stanley Tucci. The ensemble does an impeccable job to deliver the goods. It would be going over old ground otherwise, because this news issue has been examined quite often.  I found that it played very much like a quality TV movie. Perhaps this might be a stepping stone for a future TV series...but cinema I feel should not only deal with hard hitting issues, but also deliver a completely new perspective on any historic event. Also the screenplay did not really shed any further light or insight beyond what has already been discussed. Perhaps I am looking for something more of a revelation on the outcome, or a character transformation. The screenplay did not deliver answers, but certainly got people to discuss faith and trust issues. It does deals with the subject matter with dignity.
Excelente película, una de mis candidatas para mejor película.
one of the most boring movies of the year.
This has been the second fact based film I've seen this year that I enjoyed as much as the last (which was The Big Short) while also being more surprising.
This was an awesome movie. The roles were all perfectly cast; I genuinely couldn't fault any actor, whether in a big or small part. I thought it was cool that the movie was done in a pretty understated and straightforward way, because that's how I'd imagine that the real Spotlight crew (as in the actual people from the actual Boston Globe) would break a story. The plot unfolded in dribs and drabs, which kept it interesting and also prevented the storyline - which focused on some pretty screwed up stuff - from becoming too full on.
This is one of the best films to be made about journalism that has captured such a shameful act. the intensity of the film is shared by the actors, who remain loyal to the vision of the director. this film fell to the side of my list and I missed this for some reason, but I'm glad the general audience gave this film all the love it deserved. McCarthy is one of the best character driven directors in the market and this had me by the throat for the 2 hours, just a brilliant film. The film is ensemble piece, much like glengarry glen ross, each actor brings the characters to life and helps shape of the best journalism films ever made. the conspiracy is shocking and the intensity of the script only keeps this film ticking along until the bitter end, if you haven't seen this film you really need to track it down. 20-03-2018.
For a movie about a group of journalists researching, knocking on doors and uncovering the truth, this is probably one of the most terrifying movies that might have come out this year, the abuse of some priests to minor boys/girls happened, still happening and the Vatican is still trying hard to cover it up. Not everyone seems to know or care about it, which is sad. I know I am digressing but this needed an immediate action. Back to the movie, everyone did well and I appreciate the value of the silence to emphasize the emotional of some scenes. The story is horrifying as it is and the director is aware of that, he just let everything happened naturally without any queue music to tell us how to feel. I think every journalism student should watch this because this is also a story of those journalists who are good at their job without glamour or being over dramatic about it. the end scene has a list of places in which the abuse of the priests occurred, and some cities from the Philippines were included! No mention from the media, no expose from Imbestigador, nothing. This is nominated for best picture and I hope it wins!
A slow burner but builds in to a gripping story. I loved Mark Ruffalo - such a versatile actor.
Gripping story and captivating performance from everyone.
Tom McCarthy's awards season bio-drama tells a taxing tale which often surprises, but never stuns.
Considering its subject matter, this account of investigative journalism into paedophilia in the Catholic Church is wholly anti-sensationalist in both storytelling and style - and sometimes all the better for it.
McCarthy's calm, documentary-like feature isn't afraid to pull its viewers along slowly and reveal its secrets softly, but the distance it keeps from its key characters tends to leave us bemused when they breakdown at random in sporadic nods to Academy voters.
Worse still, Spotlight suffers from the ironic sensibility that - much like the characters it portrays - the story it is trying to tell is far greater than the film's ability and capacity to actually tell it.
Spotlight is a cold biopic with a distinct lack of character and a distinct abundance of "Hey, Academy members - look at me!"
thoroughly enjoyed it.  riveting.
Strong ensemble cast and quick-moving story that really brought me in.
Heavenly Hacks

It's hard not to like and nearly impossible to warm to this tale of hacks taking down another vile institution, the Catholic Church, for it's succouring of child molesting priests. It is a journey-procedural, like All the President's Men or Erin Brockovich. It is well written, extremely well acted by the ensemble cast but somehow it feels like eating day old pizza. Maybe better when hot, but 15 years on, produces a giant MEH!

Now the Gruffalo, I mean Mark Ruffalo, is the star of the show, but he is well supported by other hacks in sad clothes. Keaton is very good too and the guy from Mad Men. Shrieber is dull as can be imagined. I am sure that at Oscar time, this will win something, as actors are as self regarding as this righteous mob.

Not a snoozepaper, but little better.
This film is unlike any I've ever seen. At the heart of the subject matter is deceit, which makes the  honestly with which the story is told that much more powerful, heartbreaking and beautiful. Spotlight is an American masterpiece. Art of the highest order. Not hyperbole.
Fantastic film, although is very much a drama, do not go in to this film looking for action with a laid back plot. This film is tense and brilliant with the biggest action piece being Mark Ruffalo running down a corridor
How McAdams secured an Oscar nod, I'll never know. It was a decent performance, but it was no Anne Hathaway playing a prostitue, shaving her head, and singing in live time. The movie, though, was a success. Bringing the right amount of emotion to the right scenes proves to be McCarthy's strong suit in this film. It handles the heinous actions with precision as well at giving each one of the characters their own deserved spotlight. It was very well made but did it move me? eh.
Has it slow moments but those are inevitable in a movie like this. Very educating and challenging movie to watch. Wouldn't recommend for everyone because everyone doesn't want to watch the truth !
Good film no frills just a good story well told. Nothing to do with the film but I think the twat with the deepest box of popcorn ever seen might have affected my enjoyment.

Acting wise I recognise everyone from somewhere?? The only frustration is the lead male appears to have had a lot of work done so much so his mouth doesn't open properly

The level of cover up makes you wonder about the fucked up world we live in.
Almost didn't see this as I so hated Michael Keaton in Birdman. I was amazed at his almost sedate performance in Spotlight. A very interesting story. Too bad not much has been done about the problem the story is based on.
A great contestant for the Best Film Academy Award. The story was told without false sentimentalists and exaggerations.
Too good a movie to be missed.
Slow, surprisingly muted and almost overwhelmingly disappointing. This year's Oscar frontrunner for best picture deals with The Boston Globe newspaper's expose of the dirty dealings and hypocrisies of the Catholic Church. More specifically it hones in on the sexual molestation of young boys by Catholic priests. However, despite this controversial hot potato of a subject the film seriously lacks any raw power or urgency. Instead it is content to have its leading investigators amble from meeting to meeting obtaining information rather too easily. Things aren't helped by the lack of an emotional hook. The victims interviewed are all adults and come across as basic stock characters shouldering all the worst lines of dialogue like 'Who can say no to god'. Lines like this are so phony that one winces with embarrassment. Anyone who has seen 'All the President's Men' or Netflix's current 'Making a Murderer' will know that films exposing evil or corruption can be nerve jinglingly tense and emotively powerful, but Mark Ruffalo's annoying depiction of righteous anger just doesn't cut it. Where the film does succeed is in keeping viewer interest in a subplot as to who in Spotlight's department was responsible, and therefore complicit, in burying the story years earlier. Performance wise the Oscar nominated turns of both Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams seem quite conventional and uninteresting, whereas the actors in smaller parts; Liev Schreiber, Stanley Tucci, Billy Crudup and John Slattery all fare much better. The 'Spotlight', however, does shine on one person; Michael Keaton. For an actor who is often guilty of being way over the top he is here at his most understated. It is more than fair to say that he single handedly elevates 'Spotlight' to a level way above the mediocrity of the rest of the film.
Very good film, mostly gripping throughout. The occasional piece of poor story-telling, in that occasionally I was a touch confused as to exactly who was being interviewed/spoken to by the main crew. Also difficult not to notice that there is essentially one woman in the film, she does speak to a priest's sister very briefly at one point. This is likely due to the source material, it is a true story after all. Small details such as an AOL billboard in the background shot were noticeable and fun. Generally a very good film well worth watching.
This movie is too important to not watch...
This is a very good movie.  It took me awhile before I watched it because I knew it was going to be upsetting.  I was right.  They did a fantastic job portraying the story without making it too disturbing.  What a sad truth that had to be told.  This is a must watch.
First rate entertainment.
http://cineptimoarte.blogspot.mx/
Anchored by its excellent lead performances, "Spotlight" is a worthy new addition to the pantheon of Journalism Thrillers (as exemplified by the still unmatched "All the President's Men").  The screenplay and direction are taut and well paced, creating the opportunity for some truly engaging performances from Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and supporting players Billy Crudup, Stanly Tucci and Liev Schreiber.  Ruffalo's intense, tweaky portrayal of journalist Mike Rezendes is a compelling joy.  The wonderful Rachel McAdams, so surprising in the messy second season of "True Detective", is somewhat under-utilised, and the score is pedestrian.  Still, "Spotlight", like many well made films, transcends its minor flaws to tell a very dark, sad and disturbing story in an entertaining and riveting manner.  It's a rare example of no "bells and whistles" film making, allowing its story and performances to intrigue the audience.
Good film but boring as hell.
Unrelentless. Unreal. Heart-pounding. Awful. Beautiful. There are so many adjectives to describe Spotlight that you couldn't fit them on ten pages. The acting and the script are two things that truly stand out in this real life American horror story that delves deeper and deeper into a corrupt and horrid story of the Catholic Church.
Absolutely incredible. When the film finished you could have cut the atmosphere in the cinema with a knife. Never known that before.
Spotlight has not only a solid script based in a pertinent and interesting real-life story, but also a talented cast, resulting in a movie with a very detailed and well-written narrative combined with the emotions felt by the characters about the religion and its corruption.
Restrained, honest, and compelling. Never feels like it's embellishing the truth or overly milking the emotion, giving it a sense of true to life tension. Superbly acted all round. Can't really fault it.
Excellent movie. Had to build up courage to watch this one - but than it turned out to be not nearly as graphic as I thought it would be. Great journalism story that does a great job saying it like it is.
Even without the high profile subject this would get a five star review. Brilliantly written and acted and exciting to watch. Must see movie.
An important story. Well acted, well told, well made all around. Not flashy -- in fact, it's done in an almost ordinary, reporterly, investigative fashion -- and that's how it shines. From there the story truly breathes and captures (and builds and maintains) interest.
one of those movies you keep hearing how great it is, and then you see it and it actually does not disappoint...in an era still of an overwhelming amount of anti heroes, this movie manages to nail the tricky balance of presenting real feeling people that you can still relate to while respecting and admiring...reminiscent of a mix of old school intelligent Sydney Lumet style tales, esp the Verdict, with the zealotry of All the Presidents Men...it also pulls off another challenge that many movies fail when they attempt: each new character introduced in the first act is a recognizable and terrific actor at the top of his or her game...more to come of my review, but for now, I say this is definitely one of the year's best stories, told simply and well, with a top notch catch, that makes me hope someday i could be in such a movie...but hey, thats ridiculous...anyway, bravo
With its strong ensemble cast this is one of the best journalist drama ive watched
The 2015 Best Picture Winner about the Boston Globe investigation into sexual abuse within the Catholic Church is a fine film. It reminded me of "All the President's Men" about, as both are true stories fictionalized accounts of a newspaper investigative team uncovering a major cover up. This is a well made movie, with a fine cast. Keaton and Ruffalo are especially good. It's a good story, one that is equal parts depressing and incredible (in it's frightening scope). Not an uplifting story, but a good one.
Fabulous cast great script builds to a very strong end.
No action, no suspense, but a totally engaging delve into investigative journalism. A Redbox must see.
Overrated - slow and dull
For a while the film seems well made but not in any way extraordinary or special. I don't know how to accurately describe the feeling, but I guess it would be along the lines of "well that was a movie". However the longer the film goes on, the more engaging it gets, and about halfway through I was in it with the last half hour or so being pretty intense. The highlights of the film are one scene in particular where Mark Ruffalo gets to let it all out, and the last ten minutes or so of the film. I admit the ending felt a bit abrupt because I guess a part of me wanted to feast on the aftermath which isn't shown, but with how great a moment the ending is, I can totally understand ending the movie there, because you can't really ask for a better scene to end on. More than anything though I'm glad this film was made because making this story a part of popular culture will help it to not be forgotten which it shouldn't be because it's too important to forget. It's one of the most upsetting examples out there of how established institutions with too much power can and do get away with murder when they become too ingrained in the fabric of society and indoctrinate people to be loyal to them to the point where no one will ever challenge them again.

8+/10
Terrific film showing the journalistic process gradually peeling back the layers of corruption in the Catholic Church and its apologists covering up systemic child abuse.
There is nothing special about how this film is made, it won't win prises for its editing or its soundtrack. But it's wonderfully refreshing to see a film that is telling such an important story. And with such outstanding performances from all of its cast, this film is by far the best of 2016 so far.
Mark Ruffalo was outstanding in a film that kept your interest all through. The ensemble cast was equally good. They portrayed a group of people that you worried about, cared about and hoped they kept their jobs. One of very few films I could watch again.
The best movie I have seen in a long time.
Terrific, absorbing movie.
The Best Picture frontrunner, Spotlight, handled the wrongdoings of the Catholic Church in Boston and beyond to near-perfection. It insists on telling the facts as they stood, treats victims with sensitivity and avoids over-dramatisation. This approach naturally leads to the conclusion that a documentary would have sufficed, as it is the story and not the journalism or lawyer chit chat that keeps the film interesting. Of course, an all-star cast would have outvoted that idea for money and awards. That being said, the cast do work well together, but there is certainly less dramatic work for them here than in The Big Short.
Simply one of the best films I've seen in a very long time. I have never posted any kind of rating before for anything, restaurants, electrical goods, hotels, nothing. However, I was that moved by this film that I wanted as many people to see it as possible. I'm not trying to bring down the Roman Catholic Church, as recent investigations into popular culture icons if 1970's Britain have shown that paedophilia and sexual abuse needs to be challenged in all areas.
Amazing performances, superb script and an all round great movie, well worth the Oscar nomination.
Good detective story about how the reporters uncovered the child sex abuse in the Catholic Church,
Fabulous movie - great writing and acting.
A master movie. This is the one that can almost be never tried to be made in India because of unsaid "No right to speech in Cinema". BTW it's a compeling movie to watch in every standard, directorial effort, the tense, performances (each and every). Must Watch ! Not to be missed !!
Great cast! Marvelous acting!!! And what a great story to tell!! It is so great to see how it all developed!! Tension builder even though you know the outcome!!
I have a soft spot for investigative dramas, especially those that depict the minds behind the investigation. So, it's easy to love "Spotlight"; it uncovers disturbing content and displays it under a journalistic light, but it's handle with such care that you begin to immerse yourself into the film itself. It subtly blew me away, and made me remember why I love the art of writing.
One of the best dramas I've seen in a while. Filled with genuine truth and performances.
Brilliant film, sad story and a real insight into how bad the Catholic religion top brass have sat and allowed the abuse to happen. It's still happening today and if it was any other business this would NOT happen, a disgrace that Priests are not being investigated and sent to prison. Daily miscarriages of justice continue to occur due to turn in a blind eye by the Catholic Church. I hope God is forgiving to you !!!
Exciting and breathtaking story about investigative journalism.
Great pacing and classy direction of a sensitive yet extremely important investigation. Mark Ruffalo stands out amongst a quality cast.
There's not much I can really say about this.  If you want a film that showcases great, understated acting, this is the one.  If you like investigative stories, this checks out for that too.  It's a well made film that presents its material in a very straight and narrow way, with little to no deviations from that.  This isn't the sort of movie with deep and interesting characters, it's just a well crafted telling of a real life scandal.
Top notch film with an outstanding ensemble cast based on a true story, this is a reminder of the importance of journalism, the freedom of the press, in our democracy.
Suveræn film, som ikke på noget tidspunkt taber tempo eller ens opmærksomhed. Helt igennem fantastisk skuespil fra især Mark Ruffallo, Rachel Mcadams, Stanley Tucci og Michael Keaton. Det eneste uhyggelige ved denne film er at alt den berører er virkeligt.
The reality is sickening. But the movie is amazing. Jaw dropping movie. The way its delivered is perfection. Couldn't be more perfect. The story line is amazing, the casts are spotless. It's just a great movie with an eye opening message.
Spotlight? Seriously? Of all the great movies that came out last year, you choose Spotlight? I know the Academy isn't the best judge of movie quality, but seriously that was one of the most overrated films last year. I wouldn't really recommend that film to anyone who likes things to happen in a movie. You already knew about the Catholic priest sex abuse scandal, now watch a movie about them finding it out. It's like an episode of Law and Order SVU guest starring Batman and the Hulk. I know that might sound enticing, but it's not.
My pick for "Best Picture" of 2016. Great performances by a great cast, really well written. Just a solid movie all-around.
Excellent movie. Really puts "spotlight" on this awful scandal.
Powerful movie and amazing performances highlighting the insidious and disgusting cover-up by the Catholic church of the sexual abuse of thousands upon thousands of children by Priests over the decades.
Very powerful movie...and as it is a true story so very disturbing and very sad....Mark Ruffalo is excellent!
Incredible film, with a tragic story and powerful message behind the film. A definite must watch.
Boston Globe is tight, and Spotlight is tight. It is not a happy picture, and the message about ruthless journalism protecting youth from priests kind of left a sour taste in my mouth.
THIS FASCINATING FILM PUTS CHILD MOLESTATION IN...THE SPOTLIGHT.
As good as it gets. Ruffalo puts on an acting clinic as always.
The movie had a slow beginning but quickly morphed into a fast-paced, thrilling, and above all emotional movie. With incredible performances, above-average dialogue, and a very interesting story, this film is one of the best of the year.
An amazing tale of how perseverance can pay off. "Spotlight" manages to balance a journalism drama and a "web-of-lies" story while not having it's elements appear dramatized. All of the cast does a great job, the score is great, and the subject matter still strikes a chord even all these years later. A great story of fighting against a sick injustice as well as a showcase for the amount of power an organization can have when it owns a day of the week.
Best movie of the year. My heart goes out to all the victims of this abuse.
Powerful! I went to the movie because I wanted to see it before the Oscars.  So glad I saw it! Horrible situation but amazing story.
Sensitive, revealing, shocking, very well acted, thought provoking and very moving. Tragic that it's based on fact.
It's well made and acted. Often a little slow and stuffy. Still not sure how I feel about it. There's really no sympathy for all the good Catholic people (and priests for that matter) to make the film feel objective enough. But that's Hollywood for ya.
Juzgarla teniendo 2 cosas en perspectiva: La primera, desde la óptica de que es una muy buena película, bien contada, entretenida, por demás interesante y muy concreta en el tratamiento del tema que aborda, sin el tinte "amarillista" en el que fácilmente pudo haber caído; esto se lo aplaudo muchisimo... La segunda perspectiva consiste en verla como la película que ha sido la más premiada en este año y que es considerada (por muchos) como la mejor película del año... Si bien es una muy buena película, yo NO podría llamarla la mejor... Probablemente sea el tono del guión que la tornó demasiado sobria y fría por momentos, lo que hizo que yo no conectara por completo con ella ni con sus personajes... Trata un tema ya bien conocido por mí (recomiendo documentales "Deliver Us From Evil" y "Mea Maxima Culpa" para una mayor exploración del tema de la pederastia)... y el drama periodístico como subgénero ya ha sido MEJOR representado en el cine por al menos tres películas que atesoro mucho: "The Insider" (una de mis 10 películas favoritas de todos los tiempos), "All the President's Men" y "Shattered Glass"... Conmigo, la expectativa jugó un poquito en contra, y es de esas películas que quieres amar con locura, pero que al final te deja con la percepción de que faltó algo más... Nota mental: Nunca entenderé las nominaciones al Óscar para Mark Ruffalo y Rachel McAdams por esta película... Pero, reitero, es justo recomendarla como la buena película que es (4/5).
I thought it was slow to start with but the story was great as well as the acting.
BEST PICTURE 2015: interesting movie telling the powerful true story of a secret that shook the world about child abuse within the Catholic Church. Great performance from Mark Ruffalo 7/10
Revealing and interesting show!
Good story, solid cast and film overall but executed too dully with a unsatisfying ending.
Es sorprendete ver como tratas un tema asi, la religion es del hombre y es naturaleza del hombre equivocarse, pero como tratar el tema sin retratar a las victimas, como generar esa tristeza que te deja saber que hay clerigos que abusan de menores... con un gran elenco y escenas inteligentes creadas  para el entendimiento del daño que genera esto... Ruffalo digno contrincante de Hardy por actor de reparto... 

Es dificil ver esta pelicula desde cualquier silla, la de los no catolicos, las de los catolicos, las de los ateos... pero si eres padre es muy dificil tema.... malditos bastardillos!!!
Extremely powerful take on true story of abuses in the Catholic Church. Definitely one of the most important movies made in last few years.
It was brave to tell this story and do it so objectively that it almost erases the bias to whichever side (which is usually the case in other films). A well-thought, beautifully cast, and undeniably well-rounded film that is not afraid to go toe-to-toe with a delicate subject.
A very upsetting true story, but one that rings too true for those that understand the dirty underbelly of organized religion. Spotlight manages to perfectly summarize one of the biggest issues with organized religion today (along with how much money they take from the poor).
An excellent ensemble cast film whose main strength lies in its superb performances and a fascinating, well-written narrative that recounts the efforts of a group of committed journalists to get to the bottom and expose a revolting truth - something that is sadly becoming so rare nowadays.
A good film. Shows how widespread child molestation by Priests is.
Elokuva hyvä, katolinen kirkko paha.
Vaya que la iglesia catolica es diabolica xD
Fantastic film a must see film very thorough provoking mobile phones and computers show you the age it was set in....  Can't say I enjoy it because of the subject matter.... Makes me feel disgusting the church still let's this go on today..................
History will look back on this movie with regret, regret that this movie did not sweep every award show and Keaton was the one snubbed in 2016. Wow what a great thrilling picture this was that hits on every level. Could you imagine if the real life people from the Boston Globe did not have the balls to seek out this story and bring it to life how long these sick men would have continued to ruin the lives of so many children? This was one of my favorite pictures that I have seen in a very long time.
Dry, heavy but brisk, with a solid if not too-understated performances leading to a rather clinical execution
TrÃ¨s trÃ¨s bon casting. Pas de lenteur. Bien pensÃ© et menÃ©. Des plans simples mais beaux. Bref un trÃ¨s bon film efficace.
Really interesting film. Great cast. Kept you gripped all through the film.
A bit long in places but good
-Spotlight is een 2015 Amerikaanse biografische drama film geregisseerd door Tom McCarthy en geschreven door McCarthy en Josh Singer. De film volgt de Boston Globe's "Spotlight"-team, de oudste continu werkende krant inlichtingendienst in de Verenigde Staten,en haar onderzoek naar gevallen van wijdverbreide onrust en seksueel misbruik van kinderen in de omgeving van Boston door talrijke rooms-katholieke priesters. Het is gebaseerd op een reeks verhalen door de echte Spotlight Team die de Globe 2003 Pulitzer Prize voor openbare dienstverlening verdiende.De film sterren Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Brian d'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber en Billy Crudup.

-Spotlight werd getoond in de competitie van het 72e Internationale Filmfestival van Venetië. En werd ook getoond bij het Telluride Film Festival en de speciale presentaties gedeelte van de 2015 Toronto International Film Festival. De film werd uitgebracht op 6 november 2015, door Open Road Films. Hij won vele vakkundige en critici' association awards en werd uitgeroepen tot een van de beste films van 2015 door verschillende publicaties.

--Kritische reactie:

-Bij de herziening aggregator Rotten Tomatoes de film heeft een score van 96%, gebaseerd op 201 reviews, met een gemiddelde score van 8.9/10. De site's kritische consensus luidt: "Spotlight gaat probleemloos om met de sensationele bijzonderheden omtrent haar feiten gebaseerde verhaal terwijl ze weerstaat voor de verleiding om fêteren zijn helden, resulterend in een drama dat eert het publiek én haar real-life onderwerpen." Op Metacritic, heeft de film een score van 93 uit 100, gebaseerd op 44 critici, met vermelding "succes."
-Variëty's Justin Chang noemde de film "een prachtig geregeld en fascinerende gedetailleerde uiteenzetting van de Boston Globe's Pulitzer Prize-winnend onderzoek naar de wijdverbreide pedofilie schandalen en latere cover-ups binnen de Katholieke Kerk".

-Bij de 2015 Toronto International Film Festival, Spotlight finishte als derde in de kijkers stemming  voor het People's  Choice Award.

-- Reacties uit de katholieke kerk:

-Kardinaal Sean O'Malley van het aartsbisdom Boston zei Spotlight illustreert hoe de krant verslaggeving aanmoedigde  de kerk "te behandelen wat was beschamend en verborgen." Vatican Radio, officiële radio dienst van de Heilige Stoel, noemde het "eerlijke" en "dwingende" en zei dat het hielp de Amerikaanse katholieke kerk "volledig te aanvaarden de zonde, toe te geven in het openbaar en alle gevolgen van dien te betalen." Luca Pellegrini op de Vaticaanse Radio website schreef dat de Globe reporters "maakten zichzelf voorbeelden van hun meest pure roeping , dat van vinden van de feiten, verifiëren bronnen en zichzelf makend--- voor het welzijn van de Gemeenschap en van een stad--- strijders van de noodzaak voor rechtvaardigheid."
Simply sensational narrative, strong acting and a brilliant pace. Spotlight sheds a light on the roots of a well publicised scandal within the church. The small team at within the Boston Globe were brilliantly portrayed by the likes of Keaton and Ruffolo. The audience seemingly discovers everything with them and shares in their emotions in great anticipation of the truth. Great film, would definitely recommend
A very interesting film about the investigative journalism into a very sensitive and emotional subject matter.  It delivers the facts without holding back, and doesn't unfairly victimise, accuse or idolise the people involved.  Strong acting and good pacing keep the drama and interest, but the ending feels a bit anticlimactic.
todo perfectamente almalgamado para brindarnos una película de periodismo donde los hechos están equilibrados gracias a un excelente guión y dirección
Spotlight tells a harrowing story, made all the more harrowing by the fact that it is as close to the truth as we can believe. The harrowing story of how a religion was used as a prop in one of the worst things to happen in this world's history, and the knocking down of those walls by some humble newspaper journalists. 


Watching Spotlight before its Best Picture Academy Award. I found myself both infused, yet off the boil. It isn't that this film is bad. That couldn't be much further from the truth. The main problem here is that it is packed to the rafters with dialogue. It does hold the interest of the viewer, but watching this, I can only think of how much this perhaps should have been a book rather than a film. Having said that, as a film this is high-quality cinema, well put together and pure solid gold. Shining a spotlight over one of the darkest things imaginable. This film is not particularly original in its format, but it is in the way it goes about telling you its story. You could just listen to this and be equally as happy and I don't know what I should think about that. I sat in the chair and was completely sucked into this film, and as I left the cinema, I felt as though I had been shocked ("shocked". The age of the understatement). Shocked more by the true story rather than the actual film. Although, as I thought about this film more and more; I became aware that I liked this film a lot more than I first thought. If the story is shocking, the film is putting that story in coherent form and harnessing that shock. The film plays as a narration of the finding of evidence and the actual confrontations in this film are few and far between; I can only think of one or two solid confrontations that actually made me recoil. The steady growth of this film makes it incredible. Far from boring, but for some reason slightly unfulfilling. Maybe the subject matter is to blame for that. Maybe I just need to watch this again. I feel as though I am understating this film, but the truth is, I haven't actually made my mind up on this one.

You'd be forgiven for watching this film just based on the cast. It is a top class cast and not one member of this cast steps one foot wrong here, and when they do; they had to. The cast play against an invisible villain and work off of each other so well that you never even once begin to question anything. See yourself in these character's and recognize some of humanities flaws. No heroes, just humans. Working shock and intrigue into a tight, but somehow messy, yet all the more satisfying and saddening bundle. Really, the single members of this cast cannot be mentioned on their own. For each of the cast members plays as well as the next. A true ensemble of true actors, playing true characters, in a true film. Perfection on the performance front. You won't even find yourself thinking about it, and that is a high compliment for such a film that hones on the truly horrific details of the story-line and paying off when needed. I would have loved to see more back and forth between these performers though. As mentioned before, the confrontations here are few and far between and could have given the film a different fold to slip down.

Spotlight is perfection on all levels, but the fact it has been put on screen. Sometimes, some things just work better on the page. Prepare for a bumpy ride. Prepare to be disgusted. Prepare to feel... As long as a film can make you do that, then it has worked on some level. Spotlight, I salute you. You had me on the edge of my seat, whilst burying me inside of it. I hope I haven't buried you six feet under in this review. 

The best works have their smallest mistakes on view for us to talk down.
Handles the delicate subject matter expertly well and with excellent performances, especially from Ruffalo, it makes sure the award winning journalists are portrayed skilfully in this complex puzzle
Heartbreaking at the same time as being heartwarming, this film is a testament to those who were brave & passionate enough to stand up and say 'no'. All of the actors are phenomenal in their roles and the humanity they conveyed to me, the viewer.I left feeling speechless, raw & humbled.
Bit more plain than expected. Great lesson anyway.
Not bad, but it's a TV movie, and comparisons to All The President's Men are both ludicrous and thoroughly unjustified.
It's is unbelievable that a movie was made out of the story behind this story. It's disturbing, compelling, thought provoking, high stakes film making at its very best. Handling such a subject with such restraint is commendable, not just from the cast and crew of the film, but for those that lived it. 
Even to this day the church merely seems to frown on the actions of their clergy, making a mockery of their institution. Spotlight is an important film because it not only shines a light an issue that many would rather not speak of, but does so in way that doesn't come across preachy. It lays the facts in front of you almost like a documentary. It is carried through by a class ensemble cast which work perfectly as a whole, but for me, Ruffalo stands out just a smidge and reminds you of how wonderful he is. I say just a smidge because every plays their roles to perfection here. 
I loved this movie, it's not full of hyper or melodrama, it's a love letter to investigative journalism, a lost art which I would welcome back with aplomb. Yeah I said aplomb. 
Hard to believe that the same guy (Tom McCarthy) directed The Cobbler...
Given its interesting context, this is simply a boring film without much contents. Subtlety is definitely there through emotional tensions, but the lack of actual substance and character development is disappointing considering the film has a very solid cast. Let's hope that we will not have one of the most forgettable Oscar for Best Picture with this film.
Good movie. Sad story
Outstanding movie about the Boston Globe's successful exposing of the Catholic Church priest scandal.
The business-as-usual approach by its lead characters when dealing with a very sensitive subject avoiding to be melodramatic (few occasions and that's just about apt) and sensational is in itself an achievement. The casting did help too.
It is impossible not to compare Spotlight with All the President's Men. Alan J. Pakula's film is the Citizen Kane of investigative films (and not to mention one of my personal favourites of all time). Tom McCarthy's Spotlight is a worthy companion and takes on an even bigger subject matter, but ultimately doesn't have the flair of All the President's Men. The direction of Spotlight is so understated that it doesn't even feel like there is a director at all. But what it lacks in direction it makes up for in the performances. Mark Ruffalo is the one who has gotten all of the attention, mainly because he is the only member of the cast with a showy role. For me, the scene where Ruffalo really lets loose is probably one of the weakest parts of the film, standing out like where every other scene is understated and quiet. It is actually Michael Keaton and Liev Schreiber who I thought really shone here. Schreiber in particular reminded me of Gary Oldman in Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy in just how restrained his performance was
Absolutely Incredible movie. It she'd a light on a crime that has been going on for YEARS !!!! I would highly recommend this movie.
A true story which is very shocking, especially if you have a catholic background. The film is fairly long but it manages to keep you interested right to the end and the whole cast are great. Well worth a watch.
Excellent,subtle, well acting telling of a tragic and sordid story
Good film, smart script, wonderful acting but in no way best of the year
Simply the best movie of 2015.
*Review Pending*

http://boxd.it/8sjoz
Dull and boring. Dialogue is pedestrian.
I can now see the attraction of atheism vs Christianity
This film had me engrossed from the beginning. I was very pleased that the movie focused on the uncovering and coverage of the issues, rather than showing us the abuses.
Superb and fascinating
Excellently paced and acted. Michael Keaton is good enough in this with some solid performances from Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber and John Slattery but the real stand out is Mark Ruffalo. His acting is so good that you actually forget you are watching Mark Ruffalo and think he's a completely different person. He is well deserved to win the Oscar for his performance in this. The story is paced well enough that you don't get bored and keeps the interest from the first few minutes right the way til the end.
"If it takes a village to raise a child, then it takes a village to abuse one." Incredible, understated movie. Deals with the most serious of subjects with class and dignity. Not too many gory details as a shock tactic and just enough to make one's stomach turn and make the conscience examine if we allow our personal relationships to neglect each neighbour. The ensemble provides wonderful performances. The only weakness is you don't have to pay a full movie ticket to see it. It can be easily consumed on the smaller screen. But, it should be mandatory viewing. This is a case study of when the institution becomes more important than the people the institution it was supposed to serve. And, I'm afraid things haven't changed much.
It is such a great movie, with a great cast, this is a very interesting film that had me hooked in the first 5 minutes and its a story that needed to be told, because i had no idea that it was this big of a story, so its good to now know how bad this really was. Oscar winner!
good cast it's definitely all the president's men of its time !
A slow, beautifully crafted character study
horrifying story but superb film
I just saw this movie after experiencing something traumatic. There were only 10 tickets sold for Spotlight and Norm of the North tickets were out of sale, since Norm of the North will win best animated feature this year...
Anyways Spotlight is directed Tom McCarthy and stars Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Liev Schreiber. This film is about the Boston sexual abuse scandal and how the catholic church was involved, and the journalists setting to uncover the story. The acting in this movie is superb. The cast is amazing, but Mark Ruffalo steals this movie. His character is very likable, he is witty and funny. It's incredible that the actors blend with their characters, as I watched the movie I didn't think that Michael Keaton was on the screen, but that Robby was the man I was seeing. The movie does a great job on engaging us in the topic, and shocking us moment after moment, as we start to realize the seriousness and scope of this problem. The dialogue is great, since we actually feel pity for the victims of this horrible scandal. It really doesn't try to idolize the journalists, but depict it as it actually is, a group of journalists trying to uncover a story that will help the Boston Globe gain fame and followers, but it still lightens up the good in the journalists especially Ruffalo's character. This movie is amazing, and that is why without a doubt, I give it an A.
"Spotlight" directed by Tom McCarthy is smart, impressive and impeccable. It shows the real rawness of insecurity and the hypocrisy. The polemic situation with religious context and sexual abuse. With fantastic performances by Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo and Rachel Mcadams. Is one of the best of the season. 4/5
Flows along naturally like a documentary with an emotional element, delivered well by its cast.
Osjecam se kao da sam isplivao iz nekog blata, mulja, osjecam se prljavo... iako sam znao za ovu pricu, film je toliko dobar da sam se ponovo iznovao poceo gadit ovim monstrumima i stvarima koje su radili. Scenario je fenomenalan i daje brzinu filmu, nema praznih hodova i trajanje istog je idealno. Sve u svemu kad sumiram utiske, remek djelo po mom skromnom misljenju
A complex story complemented by excellent dialogue.
A sickening True story told in depth ,and gut wrenching and honesty.
One of the best films I've seen so far!!
A very well made and important film with a great cast which is engrossing and emotive. Anyone familiar with the numerous similar stories and documentaries will possibly find the plot straightforward but there is still plenty of impact.
Brilliant piece of intelligent filmmaking. The unbelievable truth.
If you come away thinking this is about the Church, you've missed the point. Best line of the film - "If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse a child."
All of my classmates should look into this one.
Superb! Mark r aka the hulk for the Oscar
Outstanding film! Hard to watch in some parts, but overall, very good.
Indianapolis, my home sweet home, isn't exactly known for it's large Catholic presence, so I'm not sure how big a splash the story made in 2001. The story now is making a splash because of how well director Tom McCarthy crafted the journalistic aspect into a film with a great actors followed by great performances. Spotlight may very well win the Best Picture Oscar, and I'm fine with it. The plot was very compelling, the narrative moved along a suspenseful pace that a newspaper doesn't always do, and the acting is what made the film.
It plods through its matrix in an efficient if not inspired manner. As a press procedural it boasts few outstanding features except for Keaton's teeth and Ruffalo's dodgy eye. Child abuse and the Catholic Church is a story so often told that this rather timid re-telling, hardly raises an an eyebrow of concern. Yes there is something rotten in the state of the Vatican but this rather anodyne disinfectant lacks the power or the passion to flush it out.
This is probably one of the more important movies of the year because of the story it tells.
E, tomando uma criança, colocou-a no meio deles, abraçou-a e disse-lhes:
O que fizerdes ao mais pequeno dos vossos irmãos, é a Mim que o fazeis. (Mc 9,37)
«Quem receber uma destas crianças em meu nome é a mim que recebe; e quem me receber não me recebe a mim, mas àquele que me enviou».
(Mt 10,42)
An absolutely brilliant movie. SPOTLIGHT shines the light on the dark secrets of the catholic church & exposes it's lies. All of the characters are perfect : the journalists, the lawyers, the priests, the victims... 

The real beauty in this picture resides in its comprhensivity. The sometimes complex legal terms are easily explained without breaking the films climate. 

I encourage everyone to see this movie.

5/5
The feel good movie of the year... pun intended.
It's a big year for true-life films, with The Revenant, The Big Short, and now Spotlight. There's something about watching a film and after seeing those words - "Based on real events" - that makes the story that unfolds that much more enduring. No more true is that than with this true-life journalism, written and directed by Tom McCarthy. 

When you have six actors of the caliber that Spotlight has, it is easy to miss expectations. With an ensemble cast it can be difficult to balance the screen time among the celebrity, but no one actor steals the show, which only furthers the authenticity of the teamwork that takes place on screen. With the continued renaissance of Michael Keaton and similarly off-script castings for the rest, Spotlight delivers a forceful refutation of the powers that be and advocates the continued importance of investigative journalism in today's world.
Excellent work of journalism...!!! Too bad it was a jew who had the idea
A need to see film. This kind of film is important to have told and thankfully is done with thought and care. A fantastic film that leaves you furious.
Riveting without being melodramatic. 9/10
Depressing story, repeated all over the world
With a smart script, a continuous atmosphere of apprehension and great performances all around, Spotlight suceeds in every level to deliver a fact-based story about child abuse from priests of the Catholic Church and its ramifications without resorting to idealizations, even though it may seem too conventional for some viewers.
My Favourite to take out Best Picture at The Oscars. Best Picture of The Year.
A proper film about proper journalism, Spotlight is an account of the Boston Globe's investigation into the activities of paedophile catholic priests. What they uncover is a sickening and shocking amount of abuse by predatory priests that was covered up for decades by the upper echelons of the church and the wider establishment. A difficult and harrowing tale, the subject is beautifully handled by director Tom McCarthy. The plot focuses very much on the tight knit investigative "Spotlight" team, who are tasked to work on long running, in-depth stories. This four person team, headed by editor Walter Robinson uncovers the unbelievable scale of the abuse and the lengths people went to in order to hush things up. A strong cast is headed by Michael Keaton who gives one of his finest performances as Robinson. Other members of his team are played by the excellent Mark Ruffalo, Brian d'Arcy James and Rachel McAdams with other key roles taken by the wonderful Stanley Tucci and Liev Scheiber. I really can't praise this deeply moving film highly enough and while it is not an easy viewing, it is one that is very well worthwhile seeing.
Superb acting and an excellent script held my attention throughout - even though the end result was already known.
Spotlight is based on true events and stars Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, John Slattery, Brian d'Arcy James, and Liev Schreiber as employees of the Boston Globe who uncovered the story of Catholic priests molesting children and covering up the evidence with help from high-ranking Cardinals. The film was nominated for six Academy Awards, winning Best Original Screenplay and Best Picture. What else is there to say about a movie with that prestige?

To start, the cast is great. Mark Ruffalo (who was nominated for Best Supporting Actor) really shines. Liev Schreober, playing the editor of the Globe, is the initial driving force that gets the ball rolling. Stanley Tucci delivers a humbling and troubled performance as a lawyer who has defended many victims of this abuse. There isn't a poorly-given performance or an annoying character in this entire movie, which is refreshing.

It's the little things that really carry the load here, however. Howard Shore (Lord of the Rings franchise) composes a beautiful, melodic, and at times haunting score, appropriately accompanying the tone of the film. Speaking of tone, major props to McCarthy! With this story, it would have been easy to approach it in a melodramatic way, but he directs a very respectful film here. The pacing of the movie is also very consistent. My dad said "there was never really a lull," and I agree. The movie just keeps snowballing, getting bigger and more urgent.

Now, I do have a couple tiny nit-picks with this movie. There's a little bit of journalism jargon I didn't understand at first because the words were used in a way that gave no information to their meanings, but it became clearer as time progressed. Hey! Speaking of progressing time, there was really no clear indication about how time passed in this movie. In one scene, they mention how the Spotlight story had been put to the side for six weeks because of 9/11. There was a montage scene later on depicting the further passing of time, but the random jumps felt odd with no explanation.

Folks, this movie won Best Picture for a reason. When you combine a true story with a cast like this, the odds are ever in your favor (remember 12 Years a Slave?) If you enjoy movies based on true events or just good movies in general, go watch Spotlight today (ON NETFLIX!)

Final rating: A-
Based on the incredible true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, Spotlight manages to deliver a fantastic retelling of the story with very well execution, a very intense theme, and a cast of charming and unforgettable characters with an all-star cast to go with it. For years, there have been so many movies about people trying to uncover huge scandals and most of these movies have failed to make themselves likeable, and then suddenly, Spotlight comes in and shows these other movies how a true story is supposed to be retold properly!!! I highly doubt that I will ever see a movie this engaging and enjoyable as Spotlight, but the one thing I know for sure, is that this is definitely one of 2015's best movies ever.
Muy buena historia sobre los descarados casos de pedofilia por parte de curas católicos en Boston, EUA. Increíble como tapaban todo y se escondían como verdaderos demonios bajo las enaguas de sus superiores, en verdad diabólico. Bien contada la historia y con buenos papeles, en especial Keaton.
You will watch this film with a queasy unease ... it starts slowly as the journalists of 'Spotlight' probe the cover-up to produce their journalistic expose. It's dramatically well paced with good performances all around, no tricks or gimmicks -  the story itself is enough, powerfully re-told, hard not to be unmoved.
Much like 'All the President's Men', only instead of politics its religion. This is the world of investigative journalism and how institutions can help in one of the biggest cover-ups of abuse in the 21st century. This is step by step reporting, yet it moves along at a pace. At the end though, much like 'The Big Short', you wonder if anyone has learnt anything... and if that sort of things stills carry on?  Well worth a watch.
Intense, gripping and a throwback to the kind of films they should but don't make anymore - go see!
http://cinephilecrocodile.blogspot.co.uk/2016/02/spotlight-dir-thomas-mccarthy-2015-if.html
One of those films that make you want to wiki/imdb the heck out of it! Loved it!
This film is almost painfully real.  We're watching reporters go about their job. Especially the acting of Mark Ruffalo- just a man working. Until the reality of what is happening starts to build and by the end you're baffled how it was all just skipped over. 
This movie had to be made, but we should all be ashamed of ourselves.
Esta película acerca de como un diario se atreve a hablar sobre lo que todo el mundo sabe pero niega respecto a los abusos sexuales de los sacerdotes y como la iglesia católica con todo su poder oculta la verdad es una película que trasciende más allá de los premios Óscar. Además con una referencia directa a San Luis Potosí nos obliga moralmente a recomendarla. La fe es importante para el mundo pero también la verdad.
Spotlight brings to the light the harrowing true story of the sexual abuse that has been going on within the Catholic Church.  Set in the City of Boston, Liev Schreiber plays the newly appointed editor of the Boston Globe newspaper and he sets a team of investigative journalists, known as Spotlight the task of unraveling the decades worth of allegations made against priests in the Boston area over the course of decades and how the church bury said allegation.

Spotlight brings together an ensemble cast including Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Stanley Tucci and Rachel McAdams in what is riveting thriller.  Unlike The Big Short, one of the other films nominated for Best Pictire, I did not feel alienated despite the complex nature of the story, that's where Spotlights main strength is, in it's storytelling.  Spotlight is a wonderfully constructed movie with all the cast putting in stellar performances without the conceit of other movies that considered Oscar bait.

The characters are well drawn-out and you get a feel for the gravity of the story they are unfolding, however they are not made out to be heroes, they are simply doing their job, a job in an environment where they themselves have been complicit in the atrocities put upon some of the children within the church.  In this film the victims are not forgotten and we get to know in graphic detail what they went through.

Spotlight is a story that needed to be told and it's a brilliantly told one at that.
"It takes a village to raise a child. It takes a village to abuse one too". . . Haunting words spoken from a film that has now put the Catholic church under fire like never before. Back in 2001, the world was shocked in an instant when an evil force took a couple of planes and showed the American culture how delusionally safe we really were. But while the dust and destruction of 9/11 seemingly overshadowed the world, a crack team of investigative journalists from the Boston Globe were planning on shining some light on another evil that had been secretly preying on our people for years. "Spotlight" was the Boston Globe's journalism branch that took this monster on. . . Their mission, to break down the battle tested defensive walls of the Catholic church and expose a protected ring of child molestation that had been going on for how long, nobody knows. With the church's claws in the community and the courts alike, this team would have to stop at nothing to hit their mark. Turn every stone, track down each victim they could find, push the buttons of the powers that be, and show a level of perserverence when it seemed like the world would be against them. What they found in the end was nothing anybody could have fathomed. The shepards do indeed tend to their flocks, but what happens when you find an entire pack of wolves dressed in shepard's clothing???
	I can tell why the church is pissed about this piece of work. If they had a heavy hand in trying to quash the initial story, the now critically acclaimed film depicting their fateful attempt in doing so must pose as a kill shot to their general perception now. And if any of this is true, which many sources are pointing to be the case, it is simply maddening. The level of protection and enablement by a system dedicated to the serving of good, the denial of the public that follows suit, and the lack of accountability sentenced on those found guilty. This film is duely well done and serves as another punch to the gut reminder of how the human race has descended to hell in a hand basket. Directing, acting, and a beautifully ominous score serve as high notes to this wonderfully told scandal. My only qualm comes from the writing and adaptation of the story, which I found lacking in the conflict it was promising. For how threatened this team was for trying to wage war on an enemy they were told would stop at nothing to shut their efforts down, we didn't see much of that backlash as the team seemed to really put things in motion once they connected the dots. We didn't see that "hell hath no fury who poses a threat to the Catholic Church" that we all would expect. For that, the conflict and resolution of the film seemed rather casual and hitting light on points that should be much more emotionally scarring. It was a minor blemish to an otherwise rather beautiful model of one of the ugliest stories to rock our culture these past many years. "Spotlight" shines bright and should finish a close third to The Big Short and The Revenant for best movie of 2015.

GRADE: A-
Best movie of the year. Does a great job of telling the detailed story piece by piece.
Expertly paced and told with the right level of detachment.
Great performances all round, Music is a running theme that is used effectively. World building takes you back to 2001, from computers used to AOL banners. Very linear narrative however, and as a result lacks real tension. Cinematography although above average, much to ground the film rather than make it a visual orgasm.
Michael Keaton can always make working for a newspaper exciting. This is a strong issue that still has never really gotten alot of press. It might just take a movie to get people involved. I saw another show resently that had a great quote... "The problem with religion is people."...taking a great idea and ruining  it by the immoral actions of the people you're suppose to be trusting.
Only disappointment was how empty the cinema was. For me, this is the most important film I've seen for a number of years.

Art should do exactly what Spotlight does. It says something, it tells a story. It doesn't try and tell you how to feel about the subject matter, it just presents the matter and lets it do the talking. Spotlight is a tremendous story-telling feast. 
Perhaps too many movies sanatise us, stop us from feeling, that might explain my barely full cinema, but Spotlight is my favourite movie of the year. Superbly executed by a stellar cast and their director.
La grandeza de esta película no está únicamente en el hecho de llevar a la pantalla grande un tema escabroso y complejo, sino, hacerlo, además, con excelencia. Muy buena dirección y sobresaliente actuación de Mark Ruffallo.
Although it falls short of capturing the horror of the victims in the way many of the excellent documentaries on this subject do, as an exploration of good old fashioned journalism it is utterly engrossing.
Very much a slow film, but it keeps you interested as the plot progresses. There's a huge amount of talent involved here, especially Mark Ruffalo's performance. 

The unfortunate things about a real life story is you always know where it's headed.

It almost felt like watching a boring documentary.
'Spotlight' is a Drama/Biopic that tells the true story of the Boston Globe reporting team known as 'Spotlight' and their investigations into the allegations of child abuse in the Catholic Church and how what they uncovered in Boston had a huge affect on the rest of the world. This isn't a topic that people really like to discuss openly and is something that happened fairly recently and is still having an impact on society today. And this film did an amazing job at presenting this story in a way that makes it easy to understand for the audience and keeps it very grounded and real without making it a very uncomfortable thing to watch. It is impossible to tell the story without having to go into some of the horrifying and somewhat confronting details, so the film did great at finding a balance between being too controversial and being too Hollywood. That aside, this movie was very well put together through multiple departments. The acting was fantastic as is expected from a cast of fantastic actors and actresses, Tom McCarthy did an astounding job directing the film rather surprisingly, the writing was exceptional and it really is a big Best Picture contender. 

The performances in this film were just so damn amazing to see. Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Shreiber, Stanley Tucci, and John Slattery all killed it in their roles. This was probably the best ensemble cast of the year as everyone was fully committed and delved deep into their roles to the point where you stop noticing that it is Keaton and Ruffalo. Amongst all the greatness, Mark Ruffalo was still the stand-out performance of the film, watching him act in this film makes me wonder why the guy isn't a bigger actor than he is. It is a shame that most people only think of The Hulk when you mention Ruffalo as he has other roles where he puts in some solid performances. Michael Keaton as always was great, he is one of the best working today so you just know he is going to nail any role you give him. Unfortunately because of the other amazing performances around him he couldn't stand out enough to get a Best Actor nomination but he was very entertaining nonetheless. 

The directing by Tom McCarthy was a surprise for me after i had looked at his previous work. I was unfamiliar with his 3 earlier films so really all i had to go on was last years 'The Cobbler' and well, it didn't have me really excited to see how he does on this film at all. But after seeing the amazing work he did with this film, it is hard to say that the same guy who directed 'The Cobbler' also directed the Best Picture nominated 'Spotlight'. The way he ties this film together and arranges all of the individual stories going on was very impressive to see. For quite a bit of the film you have the various characters all going off and investigating certain aspects of the case, and to be able to follow each one of their journeys in a way that allows you to keep track of everyone and not get lost is a great achievement. I also like the way he paced the film, there were a couple of moments fairly early on where i felt it could pick up the speed a little, but after 30 minutes in it was smooth sailing. But when much of the scenes involve interviews, meetings and scenes of those sorts it is very difficult to try and cover everything without skipping things or boring people, so well done again. 

So in the end, Spotlight is just an amazing movie and manages to remain entertaining for the entire 2 hour runtime. It provides you with many of the facts and information regarding the allegations and mixes that in with a very interesting and entertaining story and film. The performances are all great and definitely worth watching just to see these great actors doing what they do best. I love a good biopic and this is definitely one of them so i highly recommend checking it out. Will it win Best Picture? Although my pick is still 'The Revenant' i would have to say this one of the top 3 nominated that actually has a chance.

9.1/10
Excellent movie, well-acted and rarely overacted, thoughtfully written and leavea you wanting more.
Goede film, maar gaat enkel over het onderzoek. Heel gewone regie, geen enkele actie, geen enkele bijzondere dialoog... eigenlijk een raadsel waarom deze film de oscar won voor beste film. Zeker niet slecht, gewoon gewoon goed.
It wasn´t really good for me, the feeling that left me is "meh" after watching it, i was expecting a lot more of this story.
Powerful stuff, a grownup film telling a horrific story. Go see it.
good movie. I thought the acting could have been slightly better.
Dealing with a complicated topic, Spotlight shows a true and shocking story about journalism and the church's flawed system, and will leave you in awe after the credits start to roll.
The casting choices were perfection and the acting superb. The message is clear and the writer/director don't hold back. I believe this is a MUST-SEE film for everyone. We should force schools to show it. It is sickening that people can choose to ignore subjects like this because of the comforting ignorance they live in. Powerful and excellently scripted!
A very solid film from the workman McCarthy who does everything to just get out of the way and let a story stand on its own two legs. A film that gets into the legwork of real journalism that is inspiring in its dogged determination and as a light criticism of the death of journalism and the rise of Facebook stories. What else have we missed as newspapers have been slashed and anyone can write an op-ed with no sourcing or attempt at even-handedness and we celebrate it because it validates our opinions?
A group of reporters dig deep into the systemic abuse of children by Catholic Priests which turned out to be a worldwide epidemic that the Catholic Church was well aware of and was deliberately keeping secret, covering up, and ignoring. With about 6% of priests engaged in sexual abuse (with over 400,000 in the world that leaves about 25,000 who hurt children over who knows how many years) they uncover something beyond comprehension. The film fleshes out the characters just enough to give them some dimension, but not enough to take the focus from the overall narrative and turn it into something personal and schmaltzy. Some hard hitting scenes with victims, blame to go around for everyone, solid ensemble acting (Ruffalo stands out, obviously), and some nice musings on the even grander effects of those who are robbed of their faith because of this and you are left with a movie that will leave you full of righteous indignation. Look for it to pull best picture for old Hollywood style (All the President's Men) and true-story of do-gooders.
As a survivor, I cannot thank the cast, crew, producers, and everyone connected with this work enough. It is honest in it's portrayal of the victims and their pain, the degree and depth of cover up, and the desire of some to continue ignoring the issue and others who advocate for those of us who suffered. Thank you for the healing tears, and for your gentle handling of a terrible chapter for many of us.
I might have to watch it again. I was expecting this big mystery. Anyways I always rate the acting of Keaton.
Excellent procedural film, showcasing the members of an investigative journalism team. Great cast but I'm not sure why Rachel McAdams was nominated for Best Supporting Actress.
Brilliant insight into the world of investigative journalism with an excellent display of acting prowess from the movie's entire cast of stars
Great writing, great performances, great direction perhaps the best movie on journalism since All The President's Men
Brilliant movie with some fantastic performances. Maybe people watching this will finally wake up to what is going on around us.
The truth is always stranger than fiction and that's why it makes for the best movies. Spotlight is the 2016 Academy Award Winner for Best Picture and it was well deserved. This star studded cast comes together to tell the true story of how the Boston Globe was finally able to breakthrough the decades long wall of silence, and expose the Catholic Church's child molestation scandal. Michael Keaton headlines this all-star cast and shows that while he's been out of the spotlight (pun intended) for some time now, he hasn't lost a beat. As the enigmatic leader of the newspaper's Spotlight section, Walter Robinson (Keaton) will not give up the fight for the truth, no matter the personal cost. Even when his own bosses tell him the story is dead and to give up, he refuses to let it go and he shows that one man with a mission really can change the world. This film doesn't simply shine a light on the Catholic Church in a way it would rather nobody ever had, but it also gives views an in depth, inside look at all the intricacies that go into investigative journalism. With all the reports of fake news and all of us who simply get our news from staring at a screen, it's hard to think about all the effort that goes into getting that information from real life to print and I personally found the process fascinating. This film has a lot going for it, from an inside look at a long forgotten industry to the mysteries behind a long hidden secret. It features some terrific writing and more than one outstanding performance. You don't get six Oscar nominations by accident. This is a great film and a great addition to our list of can't miss movies!
More films like that please!
Great cast and performances for this phenomenally dark subject. No dull or dragged moment here. Excellent movie, Highly recommended.
Awesome movie!!! Very very good, keeps you engaged!
Best film I've seen in over a year easily. Very dry subject matter but kept me gripped from start to end. Take some tissues with you.
Good Story but very slow paced with some really shocking bits. Nothing impressive in the acting section to be honest.
Superb & very good story telling! Harrowing scale of events
Pudiera ser candidata los Oscares.
Stellar acting. Incredible story. Hope it wins at the Oscars! Enjoyed it immensely!! A great movie to watch! Can't wait to see it on dvd.
A standard setting movie about child abuse, journalism (real journalism) and the disgraceful coverup by the Catholic church of historic child abuse cases.

A sometimes rather gloomy movie, stately (but not actually slow) and somewhat forensic, it's not quite the emotional hammerblow of a movie like Room.  Instead its a sombre, clever movie in the mold "All the President's Men".

Michael Keaton and Mark (G)Rufallo are the standouts in an excellent cast but Rachel McAdams and Liev Schrieber both offer strong support.

It's got Best Picture win written all over it.
"Spotlight" tastefully handles the sordid details of a sensitive subject; priests sexually abusing children and how the Catholic church engineered a complicated and complete cover up for decades.  Everyone knew this was going on but not to the extent that was finally discovered.  It is fact based and everyone present turns in a solid performance, especially Mark Ruffalo who really shines and definitely deserves Best Actor consideration.
Highly recommended.
Great cast and story
Absolutely terrific. Sometimes you can take a true story and expect it to work because of the subject matter, but often it is lazily done and can seem too formulaic. This is gripping, genuinely engaging, and has a cast that are faultless in their acting. Best Picture at the Oscars I think - and deservedly so.
Interesting but a bit slow
Keaton and Ruffalo are outstanding.
Compelling viewing and I challenge anyone not to be horrified at the content. A true story that went to the highest echelons of the Catholic Church. I think this will stick with me for a long time.
absolutely brilliant. harrowing story made to feel like you lived it. if this don't win the oscar there's no justice.
A stunning cast with no real standouts in a tale of a Boston newspaper that take on the church as they uncover endless amounts of paedophile priests . Even though the subject matter is grim its told in a journalistic fashion and its gripping from the start.
Solid without being superb.  Intriguing and rather shocking true story.  Surprised that it has got the amount of kudos awards wise, particularly Ruffalo getting an Oscar acting nom, I thought he over acted and chewed the scenery.
What a great movie. This is a fast paced movie and tells the story of the uncovering of the scandal and cover up by the Catholic Church of child sexual abuse in Boston. The movie manages to tell the story in an even handed way( I am a practicing Catholic) and you do not feel there is too much bashing of the Church as it tells the story that deserves to be retold. The acting, script and characters work really well together. Go along, you will not be disappointed.
This year Oscar's Best Picture winner is a journalism movie that deals with its very controversial topic with palpable earnestness and moral urgency, sans sensation. The ensemble cast's sublime performances and Tom McCarthy's sure-handed direction keep the movie solidly grounded. The result is a timeless classic alongside ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN (1976).
I feel this film is a little overshadowed by the extraordinary Mea Maxima Culpa documentary made in 2012 on the same subject matter. It's a good film no doubt but I was more blown away by the Doco.

It's the story of the tireless effort of Reporters from the Boston Globe of their exposure of indecent Priests in the Boston Area and their achievements should be praised significantly.

A section of the film that personally impacted me was the Catholic Churches ability to remove records from court...truly confronting. It's a good film but the Documentary gives you a whole experience.
Spotlight is a remarkable film. It doesn't make movie history but it is amazingly written brave and very important. It's a very good (and although the topic is very tough) very enjoyable cinema with some really great acting performances.
Cuando una película conquista al publico o aplauden o comentan sin parar o emiten algún tipo de sonido.
Cuando una película impacta como esta todos se quedan callados, silencio total
Mejor película del 2015
Best drama. Its kind of how the true media work.
Great cast.  Story well told.
excellent movie with spot-on acting! intriguing story,,,,I only wish was NOT based on true events!
More like I Don't Understand Why This Movie is Receiving Such a Spotlight of Critical Acclaim
An Excellent biographical film about the child sex abuse in the Catholic Church.

Fantastic performances from Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo.
This certainly didn't help my opinion of the Catholic Church.
IMHO: "Spotlight" is the best film of 2015.  Josh Singer's and director Tom McCarthy's screenplay is one of the most intelligent I've enjoyed in quite a few years.  For one thing, there was not a single second I would have trimmed from any scene. Don't remember when I last felt that, if ever.
 While Rachel McAdams has been nominated for several awards I don't think her role warrants her winning any of them. Outstanding were the performances by Stanley Tucci, Michael Keaton, Liev Schreiber, Michael Cyril Creighton, and Len Cariou as the smarmy Cardinal Law, but shining above the entire stellar cast was the work realized by Mark Ruffalo.  He would have my vote for AMPAS.
 Gut-wrenching subject matter aside, everyone who loves great film needs to see this one. From wire to wire it's simply a very, very smart gem.
a bit of an anti climax but solid acting performances.
Nice, low key drama that showcases the integrity of good journalism. Very compelling considering its just a lot of people in an office but very interesting.
This is the kind of work that needs to be done by reportrs. And this kind of films based on real events and real persons are the ones that need to be told. By stellar cast like this. You never even notice that two hours went by....
Anyone who doesn't think the Catholic Church is a crime syndicate probably ought to see this film. It's engaging if pedestrian, with little backstory to support the characters. It tells a powerful story well, but ends up being more docudrama than feature film.
Will definitely strike (an extra) chord with fellow journalists.
Powerful, absorbing and deeply moving, Spotlight is almost certainly the best film about journalism of at least the past decade.  8/8 done #Oscars :)
Investigative reporting at its best, while fighting the power of the Catholic Church.  Kudos to the "Spotlight" unit of the Boston Globe, portrayed in this film.  The movie follows the investigation without delving into graphic details, making it a story about the investigation, as well as the subject matter.
Great overall cast, with Best Supporting Actor nomination to Mark Ruffalo, in one of his best roles.
Great film,wonderful acting and thought provoking.ð'?ð¤"
Excellent movie. Very sad. Doesn't try to dress it up thankfully.  Silent cinema afterwards
Outstanding film.  Hard not to want to cry at the end.  Gripping (awful) story and well portrayed throughout.  Complete utter silence at the end of the movie said it all.
Every few years, a movie comes along that is depressing and hard to watch but important.    Movies like The Cove... Or Blackfish...  Or The Inconvenient Truth.

Spotlight goes in this list.   

It tells the story of the Boston Globe investigation into the Catholic church sex abuse scandal.    The Boston Globe story is interesting and a compelling movie.  But, the really powerful parts of the movie are not about the Boston Globe, they are about the victims and the cover up.

The movie does a good job exploring the soul of Boston -- the role of the church, of the Globe, of the people -- and talking about how something like this could have happened.   No one comes away clean with lots of guilt to go around.

Definitely worth watching -- even if it is hard.
Sheer brilliance in storytelling.
"It could have been you, it could have been me, it could have been any of us. We gotta nail these scumbags! We gotta show people that nobody can get away with this; Not a priest, or a cardinal or a freaking pope!"

Good investigative journalism is a dying medium in today's world where most media outlets are in a rush to get the exclusive and tell the story first. The same could be said for the film industry, but there are always exceptions because for every dozens of films like Alvin and the Chipmunks, we get a Spotlight. Director, Tom McCarthy, takes his time to tell this brilliant true story through a tight script that slowly begins to uncover the truth behind one of the Catholic Church's greatest cover-ups. It is a reminder of how important good journalism can be in today's world. Hopefully after watching Spotlight more people will begin reading their news from trusty newspapers instead of simply reading headlines from any internet article. It was refreshing to see a film like this portraying what good journalism is all about without taking any shortcuts. As a communication major the subject matter really appealed to me and I felt very emotional during a couple of scenes. McCarthy did a fantastic job at going through the every day ordeal of investigating. If you notice there is barely any reference towards these characters backgrounds or their family life. The entire film focuses entirely on their profession and that is what makes this such a powerful film because it avoids any kind of manipulation into character development. I loved the attention to detail that McCarthy brought to the film and how he decided to exclusively build it all around the investigation.

Bringing the true events of an investigation concerning the child molestation cover-up by the Catholic Church to life in a film might not seem like an interesting subject matter, but McCarthy handles the material with grace. He manages to slowly build the tension by going through the everyday ordeals of serious journalism. Spotlight is the name given to the investigative section of the Globe comprised of four reporters that take their time to research an important issue and build a compelling story. In this case they discover a link between several child molestation incidents with some priests from the Boston area and how the Church has repeatedly covered up for them by simply relocating them to other areas. These four reporters are given the gigantic task of trying to unmask this secretly huge system of defense built by the Catholic Church. The film accomplishes what it sets out to do from the first frame and it delivers one of the best films about investigative journalism in years. 

This is a team effort, there are no lead performances in this film. Michael Keaton might be the leader of the Spotlight team, but Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and Brian d'Arcy James all deliver strong performances. Ruffalo has received much of the acclaim because he has some of the more emotional moments on screen, and that verbal standoff off with Keaton is powerful, but everyone on screen delivers solid performances. Liev Schreiber is also outstanding as the new editor in chief who arrives at the Globe and comes up with the idea for the story. And Stanley Tucci of course is always mesmerizing any time he's on screen. Spotlight has probably my favorite ensemble cast of the year. I was a huge fan of this film and of course comparisons with All The President's Men are justified.
AWESOME!  Oh...did I mention this movie is AWESOME?  GREAT acting along with a tastefully done story line of a sad moment in Catholic history.
It's disgusting to think that all the priests and archbishops and Catholic Church covered all that up. But considering I live in Northern Ireland that has been nearly 50% catholic for 100 years (probably 80% before that) so it's not that shocking that it happened. Because every other week our news has a story about another priest kiddy fiddling
Intricate, factual and interesting, but not nearly pacey nor dramatic enough to grip you.
My thoughts ran rampant when I first saw Spotlight. On one hand, its a very good story about uncovering scandal in one of Bostons largest unofficial organizations. On the other, its a little one-dimensional, uninspiring at times, and preachy. Media members alike love this movie because its a true recanting of heroic journalistic integrity. It should be noted the cast is highlighted by a great performance by Mark Ruffalo, who has received a Best Supporting Actor nod from the Academy for his rendition of Boston Globe columnist Michael Rezendes. Ill give Spotlight the benefit of the doubtafter all, it was better than 90 percent of Hollywood releases this year.
By Ricky Miller
I am rarely left speechless when I go to the movies. 
"Spotlight" was one of the exceptions.  In this based-on-truth story, to see, let alone hear about what happened to young boys,  was reprehensible.  
Michael Keaton headlines as Walter "Robby" Robinson, head of a team of Boston reporters who band together and spend every moment delving into their story.  Other members of the team include Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams),  Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James).
The team works feverishly every waking moment at the Boston Globe, where they fight to put the story to bed by the end of the day.
As the story moves on and weaves its tableau, the amount of wrongdoings by various members of the clergy is shocking and downright disgusting.  During the team's inquiry into the Catholic Church, it is surmised that more than 70 higher ups within the church were in the wrong. 
On the lighter side of things, Stanley Tucci ("The Hunger Games") is stellar as attorney Mitchell Garabedian.  When his persona is on the screen, one listens to every nuance and bit of dialogue he utters.
Even McAdams' Sacha character mentions she does not join her grandmother anymore at daily mass for the sheer principal of it all.  Because of the events occurring at the church, Sacha feels that even attending mass would be a slap in the face to all of the victims.  
Also integral to the story is Liev Schreiber's  Marty Baron, the Boston Globe's editor-in-chief.  He wants to know the nitty gritty of it all, down to actual concrete proof.
Filling in the blanks of bureaucracy and all-around corruption are Billy Crudup's Eric Macleish, an attorney representing the Archdiocese of Boston, who was integral in part of the cover-up.
Another person fueling the cover up is Paul Guilfoyle's Pete Conley, who tries to shed various church clergy from embarrassment due to their improprieties.
In the end game of things, this hardcore drama will leave you with a feeling of disbelief and amazement on how this cover-up has gone on for so many years.  
In the end game of things, the Boston Globe walked away with multiple Pulitzer prizes for reporting on incidents that occurred in the city and it turns out all over the world.
Grade:  A
a great story, but it bothered me that the movie implied or introduced many things that it never followed up on.
Interesting and captivating.
Absolutely compelling viewing!  The Boston Globe really opened a can of worms.  That Best Supporting Actor category is going to be a tough one, even though I do hope Stallone wins still. :-)
I was aware of the dirt withing the church but not to this extent. 
Good film making and, it must have taken a lot of guts to make this revelatory film. I bet no one is laughing at the Vatican.
Good team 'investigative journalism' film, but less than compelling, even if the subject is.
A hard film about a difficult subject, but that's what makes it worth seeing. Its extraordinary cast keeps us riveted to the screen in an authentic portrayal of investigative journalism.
This journalistic drama recounts a pivotal 12 months of an investigative research team from the Boston Globe, who uncovered decades of systematic abuse against children by the Catholic Church. With subject matter so infuriating and gut-wrenching, it would have been easy for writer-director Tom McCarthy to create a good versus evil arc and give the audience a clear-cut bad guy to despise and deplore. But McCarthy opts for a more intelligent route and keeps the individual offending priests faceless (barring one unsettling and revelatory scene), instead homing in on the atrocities committed by the institution. Unravelling like a journalistic thriller sans the glee, Spotlight is an insightful, methodical and utterly compelling film that provides a window not only into the earth-shattering monstrosities at its core, but also into the mechanics and minutiae of old-school reporting. Understanding that the interactions between the key players is critical to maintaining a level of reality in what would otherwise seem completely unbelievable (despite being true), McCarthy keeps his direction unflashy, allowing the high calibre cast to flourish. Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Brian d'Arcy James, Live Schreiber, John Slattery and Stanley Tucci are all at the top of their games with fleshed out and layered performances that favour subtlety over grandstanding. Spotlight is a brilliantly told true story that captivates from beginning to end, deserving each of its six Academy Award nominations and a place on everybody's must-see list.
I know people who have said they don't want to see a movie about childhood sexual abuse, but it's not about the details of sexual abuse.  It's about the police, the newspaper, universities, the DA's office, etc. all being co-opted by the Catholic Church.  Incredible movie!
SPOTLIGHT is brilliant. The story is told with restraint and without making the journalists into sensational heroes. The script is straightforward but powerful. The acting is good. The events have their own inherent power and the extent of the Catholic Church's coverup of the widespread abuse of children is just too astounding for words. There are no lurid details presented and the victims are treated with respect - as are we, the audience. The focus is on the journalists and how they went about their investigation. A very significant story that still hasn't ended.
Truly ensemble piece. Every actor shines in his/her role. The focus is on the investigation by the Spotlight team on the cover-up by the Catholic Church over decades of sexual abuse by its parish priests. But it's not just those directly in the church but all who work for them. The journalists are passionate about their work and this shows in the performances by all. Wonderful film.
Spotlight is to the 21st century what All The Presidents Men was to the 20th century, a story about newspaper journalists who actually practice their trade with morals, vigor and determination in order to ascertain the truth no matter how unpalatable it may be. This investigation into child sexual abuse by the Roman Catholic Church in Boston uncovered a scandal not just confined to that city or indeed that country. Yet, in so many ways, it is all about Boston and the peculiar hold the church has over its parishioners in that City. Like Clint Eastwood's Mystic River and Showtime's brilliant TV series Ray Donovan it delves into the destruction caused to the victims of that abuse in Boston and how it effectively destroys their lives. The screenplay is flawless and the acting terrific.It leaves the viewer desperately sad that this sort of journalism simply does not exist anymore in the age of instant news stories and Twitter quick fixes. More's the pity!
"The church is an institution, belief is in faith alone."

A group of passion-driven investigative journalists bring to light the darkness of a psychological phenomenon that does not discriminate. Especially not even if you are a man of God.
Instantly leapt to the top of my nominees list.  Such great performances and a compelling storyline that absolutely will not let you go.  Many similarities to "The Big Short" and "All the President's Men" but I enjoyed "Spotlight" more than either of those great films.

Everyone had such stunning performances, but I found myself formulating Stanley Tucci as an acting role model for versatility as well as excellence.

Now, if only so many innocents didn't have to suffer to make this story necessary.

Powerful in the extreme.
Spotlight is a film that takes a close look at the process that the reporters from the Boston Globe went through in order to break the story of a number of Catholic priests molesting children.  I'm always impressed when a film can take a historic event where I know the end result and still keep me captivated from start to finish.  This movie is loaded with sequences that could easily be boring (flipping through books, interviewing lawyers, etc.) and yet I was captivated throughout all of it.  Somehow they managed to continue raising the stakes, and did a superb job of articulating the roadblocks they faced.  While the script and directing deserve a fair amount of credit, I also have to give a lot of praise to the ensemble cast.  Everyone just perfectly nailed their characters (some working with accents or different speech patterns as well) to the point where I felt like I knew them without any of their back-story.  I didn't realize just how much this film was connecting with me until they reached the end of the film and gave some of the aftermath facts.  Suddenly, I was involuntarily weeping.  I think it was just the combination of the victim interviews that the investigators engage in throughout the film, and then their articulation of my own frustration with the entire system.  It all compounded to connect with me in ways I never expected.  I cannot recommend Spotlight enough, it was a great film and one that touches on a scandal that is difficult to face, but one that needed to be addressed.
There's a reason this movie is one of the favourites for Best Picture #oscars
And all you can do is report it...
Engaging, provocative, smart, passionate, and often infuriating. Spotlight hits just about every mark with a clear focus and an attention to detail. Few movies conjure such conviction.
It was a good movie. Very entertaining with good acting. The woman reporter was the weakest actor. The story is interesting and fun to follow. It ends with a gut punch about the Catholic church. I bet it wins best picture. I do recommend it.
probably the best film on investigative journalism since *All The President's Men*. Oscar bells!
Although slightly cliche'd and predictable, this film in my opinion was one of the best films of 2015. It's truthful, realistic, gritty, and some times saddening. I also want to give special honours towards Tom McCarthy's masterful direction and Mark Ruffalo's groundbreaking performance.
Not only is the true story itself incredible, the performances of the lead actors in this film go beyond what we usually expect in a biopic drama - they're really extraordinary.
A stunning film. Riveting. Tragic but shines a light of hope. Really highlights how great the media can be when it's not chasing Kanye West stories. Excellent pace. Great cast. Great dynamics.
This film sheds an important and well-executed light on the role that institutions play in our society, and gives an importance to the faces that make them - including Murk Ruffalo's yelly face. It is difficult to find fault with this film - praise I do not often give.
Historically sound. Spotlight really highlights the persistence of groundbreaking journalism and its benefit in societal change.
Shades of All the President's Men, this film's focus is on the Catholic church scandal just about a decade ago. It is a fascinating look at the investigation and marvelously acted. It primarily focuses on a group of 4 following the leads for the paper but it also follows the changes and shake ups further up the chain of command. One of the best films of the year.
I went in to spotlight waiting for it to be like 12 years a slave, complete with the harsh depictions of the brutal topic it covers. Luckily it's not that kind of movie. It covers the topic of child abuse without the movie itself (and the hardships of it's topic) becoming the focus. Its goal is to inform, not shock. And it does a fantastic job of that while still criticizing the individuals and institution responsible for the atrocities that were committed.
Saw this tonight.  Another great old fashion storytelling movie...similar to Bridge of Spies in that way.  One of the best casts you'll see in a movie this year.  As a lapsed Catholic, it's a little disheartening to see what you've heard or read, on screen.  The details of abuse are not the story here, it's the systemic cover-up and that's what these guys went after.  Definitely another great Oscar contender.
I don't know what's wrong with me but this movie didn't grab me like it did for most. I'm a big Keaton fan & love the direction he's taking his career, I see why rufalo received his Oscar nom, but I just found this movie too slow & just found myself checking my watch. I wanted to like this movie sooo bad.
I've never been to Boston, but I've always thought it a c**t of a city. Not just because of its sickening support of the terrorist murderers of the IRA, or its overly-sentimental dewy-eyed oirish heritage, but because its fans and adherents always seemed the sort of people who are long on arrogance and short on morality, and this film kind of sets the record straight. As one who was at a school loosely linked to similar scandals in the UK, it is important that a decent account is made of these disgusting clerics and their corrupt church. Spotlight is well-meaning and although almost marred by Ruffalo's insufferable scene-chewing performance, makes a decent fist of telling the story but with notable omissions in that we see few survivors and - apart from one jaw-dropping all-to-brief scene - no abusers. But although it rattles along, it doesn't climax and there's nothing here that comes close to All The President's Men, the benchmark by which such a movie has to be set.
A hard-hitting, factual, and emotional ride that doubles as a look into how the field of investigative journalism for print used to work. The Spotlight team (a four person intensive investigative journalist team for The Boston Globe) stumbles upon the conspiracy/cover-up of the century when they investigate a sexual abuse claim involving a catholic priest and discover that this kind of thing has been going on for decades, involves many more priests than originally expected, and it goes all the way up to the top of the Catholic church. This is more of an ensemble film, and our leads do fantastic jobs. Mark Ruffalo (Who slowly boils over into a raw, intense, driven, emotional performance) is Mike Rezendes, Rachel McAdams is Sacha Pfeiffer, Michael Keaton is Walter "Robby" Robinson (the editor and head of the Spotlight team), and Brian d'Arcy James (Who also portrayed Shrek on Broadway. He blends seamlessly into his role here) is Matt Carol. They all shine as our Spotlight team. Liev Schriber as new editor Marty Baron (The man who sets it all into motion by assigning the Spotlight team onto the story), Stanley Tucci as Mitchell Garabedian (A lawyer who had filed some of the first claims of sexual abuse against the catholic church), and John Slattery as Ben Bradley Jr. are fantastic as well. Some of the imagery is a bit haunting (plenty of shots of Catholic churches that loom over both our heroes and suburban houses), and there are a surprising amount of moments where the floor drops out from under you as the true scope and extent of the damage is revealed (A great example is the closing text crawl that left my jaw dropped in horror). Spotlight sheds light on one of the most important news stories of the past several decades, and it is to be commended for tackling it's subject material with passion while still remaining faithful to the truth of the story. Simply put: Spotlight is an incredible film. It's enough to make you mourn the death of print journalism.
excellent account and great performance by mark ruffalo
Over hyped movie. Necessary story.
Unbelievable but it all happened and probably still happens...
Just 3 minutes into this film I was hooked.  Every performance was excellent. 
They don't dwell on the details of the abuse or exploit the brave victims.  The movie speaks more to the systematic cover up not only by the church but also by the judicial system and pretty much everyone else involved which for me was even more disturbing. One moment in the film really struck me - a victim explains that they didn't just lose their innocence, they lost their faith.  For me that was so powerful.  I also appreciated that they showed what a personal struggle it was for the reporters involved to reveal something so disturbing about the church they had all been raised in.  As a Catholic I was concerned that the movie would turn out to be a condemnation of Catholicism as a whole but it isn't.  This is a film worth seeing for anyone irrespective of their religious affiliation.
A very powerful story about investigative reporting and a huge scandal.
A well done and compelling film. Thank you for finally telling our story. Hopefully the Pope will do the right thing in our lifetime and remove the child molesters from the pulpit. http://www.sinsofthefathers.org/
It's my favorite movie of 2015.  This is a complex and entertaining treatment of a controversial subject. It has a graceful narrative that acknowledges the moral ambiguity of the actions of the protagonists as well as the antagonists.
A tense informative and insight into the massive scandal of the coverup of molestation of so many children. It has the effect on myself of horror and great sadness .I knew some of the information but this movie reveals the disgusting actions of the priests ,their lawyers and the whole institution. A must see for all
Spotlight is arguably the best picture of the year and, without question, one of the most important movies you'll ever see. Its a potent reminder not only of the horror of institutionalized pederasty in the Catholic Church, but also the brave investigative journalists that dared to bring it to light. Journalists played brilliantly by Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton and (especially) Mark Ruffalo, I might add. See this movie.
So yeah. A modern classic. Might be one of the all time greats on repeat views.
Important story that needed to be told. Great writing with impeccable acting
What a powerful well made movie.
Preachy and Obvious but for all the right reasons. Not the acting tour de force I was hoping for, but the film will blow you away, based on the content alone.
It is a well made, well executed film. Keaton, Ruffalo, Mc Adams amd Tucci are solid as always and a film based on the molestation of children by priests and the mass cover up involved is heart breaking. The film is solid in its depiction of the events and the journalists who uncovered the truth. My only problem with it is- it just too damn humorless. Forget the fact that the subject matter is extremely relevant and humorless. I just don't think that a film as well made and as well acted as this one- has to be without humor- in order to be taken seriously. The film itself needed an extra zing, and not just rely on the story to get you there... especially when you have actors of this fine caliber. Either way- regardless of my opinion- I prefer the movie to the Revenant as an Oscar Contender any day of the week and it should be seen by all. I highly recommend it.
Spotlight is a movie that is so heavily reliant on dialogue, but it never lost my interest. The performances are top notch, and the writing is fantastic. It's a movie that affected me emotionally, and it's a movie that people should see because it is both informative and interesting!
I don't get it. It was 2 hours of journalists doing journalism. Not revelatory or even very interesting. Oh and Mark Ruffalo's dramatic monologue at the end is embarrassingly hammy. His Oscar nomination is a joke.
Such a travesty that this film is based on truth and that more people still don't know about this inhumane abuse of religious power. Gripping!
Wow.  This was fantastic.  Sad if you have any connection to Catholicism.  But phenomenal job by all the actors and the real folks who actually brought the monstrosities to light.
I thought it's a bit boring to be honest, the pace and all just go pretty slowly but not really building any suspense or anything except for one or two moments. Overall it's ok. And I had no idea that my city had an investigation similar to this one.
A mature, well-acted and directed movie with a sense-full approach to the 2002 expose into the Catholic Church's cover-up of decades of sexual abuse. This story couldn't be told any better than in Spotlight!
Man, I wish we had more journalists like these guys today.
A fairly powerful film exploring an interesting facet of the catholic church abuse scandal. Although engaging in an exploration of the heart wrenching child abuse by catholic clergy, the film did not seem to focus on that specific singular emotional impact.  Spotlight explores the interesting process of the local media investigating the abuse scandal that penetrates almost all aspects of the local community in which they live.  Again, a strong appeal to emotions was not the only focus.  At the same time, how could one not emotionally invest in a story of a group of people fighting to expose this horrible egregious violation of the body, mind, and soul of the victims, families, and community.  This film might have warranted another star of a higher rating had this film not had the typical Hollywood film trope of the journalist as classic social justice warrior.  This tired trope left the film with a predictable and unoriginal feel.
what happened after will make a better movie
Insightful and enthralling. One of this years best.
It was a well played out movie without going to the dark side of the situation which given the fact that it involved children was an important factor to me to not get into details yet, be aware of what was going on. The reports passion for uncovering the system without glorifying themselves was brilliant!
A well-written investigative drama with a carefully-picked ensemble cast. The film is almost reminiscent of Argo (2012) in the way that it intricately details all the steps that go into creating something--in this case, the Spotlight piece to bring down the longstanding corruption that comes with the church. While cinematography is beautiful, it does its job by not being showy, forcing viewers to pay attention to the story instead.
The pacing was a bit too slow, and quite a few story points seem underdeveloped or unrealistic, but the performances and the presentation definitely work.
Brilliant and jaw dropping. McAdams is electric and Ruffalo is on another planet.
With strong cast and powerful directing, Spotlight spots right on its delicate issue with confident and impeccable storytelling, while leaving on the right amount of thought-provoking point about the viciousness of ignorance and its consequences to the audiences.
Great piece of writing & acting on a very tough story. 

Journalists may not be the most popular people, but this shows them in a positive light. 
Thankfully they persevered & the perpetrators were brought to justice. 

[8/10]
With its journalistic depth and reflective poignancy, Spotlight almost ascends to the greatness of "All The President's Men", and pursues a topic that is frivolously examined but never approached with the keen eye and heavy heart at the same time. Director Tom McCarthy delves into the motivations without preconceptions and gracefully tells the story with tour de force performances by Ruffalo and co. While some may feel the burn of the caustic paint the film uses to illustrate the Catholic Church, the most important thing to take away is that nothing is ever hidden and justice will find its way in the end.
This movie was a good with find acting, but this movie was a little boring in some areas. So, when I was watching the movie,  I felt like falling asleep, but I stayed awake  through all the movie. If you want to know about the Catholic Church, then you should see this movie, but be warned. When you see this movie you might really hate the Catholic Church. So,  this movie was a good movie and will definitely be nominated for awards.
My big "shock" with this movie was seeing a C+ experience suddenly turn into a very strong B+ experience roughly AFTER the 45 minute mark. I've been watching movies all my life, and I can't think of many examples of this happening. 

Before that point, the film seemed filled with "newsroom drama clichés"
(IE: smirking villains, overly likeable protagonists, montage after
montage, etc). It just felt "ok...but I've seen this before." Also, I
was afraid it would become another "Black Mass"; a well executed,
factually correct, but ultimately, for me, a hollow experience.

But, there's a moment when this film decides to go its own way, and it
does so very well: 
- The obstacles become increasingly more interesting.  
- The emotional scenes in this film are handled well. They seem
appropriate and never forced. 
- The film is brave in its portrayal of the Roman Catholic Church, and pulls no punches. With films like these, you'd expect filmmakers to walk on eggshells and try not to offend their viewers. It was a nice surprise to not see this happen in "Spotlight". 

7.8/10 or B+
Watch for Mark Ruffalo, who steals the show yet again.
En Spotlight se puede ver un juicioso ejercicio del periodismo investigativo, es un buen documento audiovisual de lo que un buen periodista debe hacer. Por lo demás no sorprende.
Another terrific "David vs. Goliath" movie, this about journalists in the basement uncovering the sex abuse scandal in the Catholic Church.  I picture most people comparing this to "All The President's Men" because it's about journalists, but partly because of the identity of the villain, it made me think more of "The Verdict" or even "Erin Brockovich."  It seems less cloak and dagger, less romanticized, and more just about the hard work of rolling up your sleeves, hunting down the right people, connecting the dots, and ultimately defying authority.
Great suspense and great performances. Michael Keaton was pretty amazing and somehow they made the grind of reporting look interesting
The true story of a team of journalists that attempt to uncover the shame of the Catholic church, being a big paedo ring that is. Very good film with some good performances by a strong cast.
nope. don't listen to them
Awesome movie. A little of a downer because of subject manor but they do a good job or portraying a tough situation with as much unbias as possible.
Spotlight puts the catholic church on full blast, uncompromisingly. This is an in-depth, realistically tear-jerking, drama with a perfect cast and great timing. Perfect job.
Well crafted and well acted across the board.  Doesn't pander but it's factual approach leaves us unemotionally attached which may be a good thing.
This movie is great! The story was connect very well, however I think there is some parts which are not clear enough, and should be cut from movie.
true story behind makes journalism difference from Facebook clickbait CEN bullshit.
Probably the best movie of 2015 for me so far. There are a few other contenders out there that I have not seen but this was so good! Great acting, great writing, kept you watching from start to finish.
This is an important and intriguing news story. It achieves some emotion with Michael Creighton's character, but you will have to wait until the end for the true impact of the film.
Nothing to add that hasn't been written.  This is an exceptionally well made film.  Michael Keaton gets better and better with every passing year.
Extremely well done and entertaining as hell. Shocking subject matter and a real eye opener.
Sometimes all the action is in the dialog, and once in a great while it works...
Flawless, emotional movie. Definitely worth the price of admission.
The screenplay is tight and the movie moves fast. Quite remarkable given the context of the story. Great viewing.
I love a good journalism movie and this is the best one I've seen since All the President's Men.
Pretty much a perfect movie. Expertly written. Brilliantly acted. Wonderfully directed. The tension just builds, and continues to build, as every scene passes. This is everything an oscar nominated movie should be. If Mad Max didn't exist, this would be the front runner for the best movie. Excellent concept, Excellent Execution.
Poignant, horrifying, outrageous, and all done using almost purely non-artificial storytelling techniques. They tell the story as it is, taking few risks but in this case, no risks were needed. The performances are pitch-perfect all around, ranging from understated from Liev Schreiber to more focused performances from Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo. The film is shot in a very lifelike manner in terms of the way its captured, in terms of what its capturing it is clearly very reverent towards the city of Boston in a way that quickly gets you to relate to these characters as we get to know their hometown. The characters are well drawn not only by its specific performances but also to its screenplay by Tom McCarthy and Josh Singer, which in my opinion does not put a foot wrong anywhere. Here we get proper people to engage with, people who make mistakes and do bad things just like the rest of us, but are doing their best to rectify these mistakes while making sure that justice is served properly. When a character goes off his rocker temporarily, I instantly felt the same way he did and wanted to jump through the screen and join him in his rage. It is everything including sad, scary, white-hot-anger-inducing and ultimately bittersweet as we get a list of all the cities worldwide where these scandals happened right before the credits roll.
Movie of the year, great script and acting across the board. Glad to see the Keats back and looks like he is here to stay!
Gripping and intense
Usually an all-star cast means a 3-star movie, or less. Not here. Well done - and all Americans should be concerned about the current crumbling of the 4th Estate. (Google it, grads.) Worthy of Best Picture consideration this year, yes, definitely over REVENANT and some of the others.
"Spotlight" approaches its controversial real-life story with tact and diligence.
After seeing the film, I knew this one would bring home Best Picture. Spotlight is a stirring drama that boasts of its great script, powerful performances, and the truth it wants to expose. It isn't brilliant just because it is an important film but largely because it was superbly executed. Ruffalo was a standout.
Must see film. Amazing story.
Spotlight

Directing : 5/5
Acting : 5/5
Screenplay : 5/5

Best Performance : Mark Ruffalo
Best Aspect : The chemistry of all the journalists and the depiction of how in depth they investigated the case
The sick, twisted, and tragic events within the catholic church are the basis for this exceptional drama. Everything here feels organic, director and co writer McCarthy once worked as a journalist, and everyone is on point. The main cast fit their roles nicely but it is the actors who portray the emotionally destroyed victims that McCarthy picked who are just as good. Watching them spill the darkest parts of their lives to the reporters is, at times, bone chilling. An important journalism film that is a must see for those interested in the genre or interested in the blood, sweat, and tears of the career.
An amazing film. A true display that while corruption may be a never-ending battle the fight against it is worth every effort.
very interesting!  holds your attention.
average movie with a compelling storyline.  If you aren't cynical about the goings on with the rich churches, you will be after this movie.
Some good acting by good actors. Could have and should have gone into more detail.
As a Christian I say every church leader needs to see spotlight - I love the RC church but this child abuse was unspeakably evil . A great movie that tells a terrible story with a deft and respectful hand. The standout quote: "if it takes a village to raise a kid it takes a village to abuse one..." A big inspirational call for us all to be prepared to stand up to horrible wrongdoing and to speak out no matter where the truth leads us.... Inspiration for anyone who wants to work in the Justice system or in journalism.
It is amazing how a newspaper can pay a team of people to work on a story for a year and also how difficult it is to buck the system (government and legal community) to eventually reveal a massive cover-up by the Catholic Church.
Not as good as "all the president's men" but nearly.
A must see, especially for Roman Catholics.  The new editor correctly identifies the problem resulting from the system.  Pedophililia will continue until members of the Church take matters into their own hands to get it done.  Some day Roman Catholics will go to a local church with local people, thereby abandoning the males-only theocracy presiding over a nation state known as Vatican City.
Great acting, terrific script, and research montages.  Also lots of shots of newsrooms and Boston.  What's not to love?
Some stories need to be told over and over again for us to understand the urgency that lies behind them. Spotlight does it in such an effective way. Great cast, direction and film!
spotlight is a group of journalists doing research on the catholic church on there illegal activities (molesting/raping children) for pretty much the whole movie.
A gripping story about an uncomfortable subject, "Spotlight" is this generation's "All the President's Men" in terms of an excellent film about investigative journalism that broke open a huge cover-up, changing the world forever. Well paced with plenty of energy, this film doesn't take anything personally but devotes itself to uncovering the terrifying truths that had been lurking in the shadows for decades.
Having now seen 7 of the 8 nominees for Best Picture, I'd put my money on this one . . .
This has an engrossing story and an amazing cast.
Fantastic Best Picture frontrunner. Acting and writing are amazing, especially from Ruffalo. Intense, disturbing, and engaging from start to finish. A bit similar to All The President's Men, but still great. 9.25/10
Walked out after 30 minutes...are all reporters this friggin boring?
Totally brought me to my knees, The acting is fantastic, no weak link and the story is engaging and heartbreaking. I sure hope it gets that bloody Oscar.
Well done movie with outstanding acting. Matter of fact drama done without a lot of fanfare but manages to tell this important story in a compelling manner.  Would highly recommend.
Riveting story, strong cast. Refreshing to see a smart, meaningful movie for adults.
Intense drama with great characters and deep story to tell. Spotlight is an intelligent drama that feels like a thriller.
Everything great about Spotlight stems from Director Tom McCarthy and cowriter Josh Singer's masterclass of a script. The performances are outstanding, as is McCarthy's direction, and Howard Shore's score should not go without praise.
Drama de periodistas basado en la vida real que está bien sostenido en actuaciones notables. La trama puede parecer un poco lenta pero el esfuerzo vale la pena.
A solid movie on investigative journalism led by a strong ensemble cast which doesn't shy away from the sensitive subject matter
Elegant and austere thriller that puts journalistic question a topic that unfortunately is still important. No technical or artistic element rises above the other and history moved by the cruel portrait of the cultural and idiosyncratic condition that is still prevalent in today's society.
Would've liked to see a more artistic take to such a powerful subject matter. Overall a very eye opening important film.
Since I didn't know anything about the actual stories about SPOTLIGHT, I didn't know what was going to happen. Because of that, I was invested throughout the course of the film. I looked up what the film was about, without looking over specific details, so that I wouldn't get too lost or confused. Even that, it was still hard to follow. But after watching the film, I put together all the events that happened in the story and try to comprehend what I saw. The actors in this film were portrayed perfectly as the team, and their performances are so well executed. That goes for the writing in the script too. It is extremely well-written. The dialogue and how the actors execute it makes for a really interesting and somewhat disturbing story. I also love how the movie was shot. It looks a lot less polished than many films we see today, depicting that it takes place in the early 2000s. I could only think of one flaw in this film. Since it has such a well-known cast, it can be a distraction as we notice who these actors are. But you almost don't notice because they play their parts so well as they don't feel like they are acting, they are real people in this event. I can see how this film is getting a lot of praise and has been receiving multiple movie awards and nominations. But it is a little disturbing at some parts and it is very hard to follow. It's not one of my personal favorite movies of the year, but I acknowledge that it is one of the best of the year.

Grade: A
Very enjoyable and fairly easy to follow. Brilliant acting but a storyline which had a bold message but just felt very predictable.
A must see for everyone.
Great cast; tough to watch given the subject matter but amazing the lies and truth exposed. Corruption and abuse on a grand scale.
Caution! This movie makes you feel angry, sad, appalled, disconcerted and really really scared. You will feel a freaking emotional tour de force.
An incredible ensemble cast, subtle direction and the kind of story that you would never believe if you didn't know it was sadly true, Spotlight deserves to be an Oscar favorite. This is the best movie I've ever seen about investigative journalism and I'd be stunned if anything knocked this off the #1 spot on my list of the best films of 2015.
Important without being self-important and the cast comports themselves admirably, even though in most cases that means taking a step back and letting the story shine through.  Nonetheless, there's nothing remotely cinematic about it, and the cast of premium cable stars (Slattery, McAdams, Schreiber) just enhances the perception that this only made it to the big screen because one of last year's best actor nominees agreed to take part.  Leaves a couple of intriguing plot threads dangling (like McAdam finding a priest who happily admits to committing child abuse, only for everyone to forget the whole thing within five minutes); that's a problem in a film where the climax is so obvious at the outset.
I loved this movie and was particularly glad that it wasn't (a) preachy, (b) filled with the all too normative Hollywood soup-du-jour agenda, (c) an opportunity to bait and switch the audience so that we were subjected to gratuitous and desensitizing homosexual or pedophile imagery and (d) it wasn't flashy. It was refreshing to watch a story tell itself without over-dramatization. The acting was superb.  

This is not a flashy film, which is part of its beauty. It feels authentic. Despite an article I read criticizing the Boston Globe, I think the movie acknowledged there were missed opportunities along the way. 

I wish there were more films made like this. Thank you!
Muy buena adaptación a la pantalla grande y merecidas nominaciones al Oscar.
Best drama I have seen in a long time.  Easy to follow, fantastic acting, and emotional.  I cannot believe the things that Spotlight uncovered with so many powerful forces against them and the actors in this film really demonstrate the struggles of fighting the church.
Masterpiece of story. Good watch. Mark Ruffalo was outstanding too.
Proof of the virtue of doing something simply, but doing it very well. "Spotlight" does not reinvent the wheel, but it matches a sharp script with a cast that, from top-billed to cameos, is filled with actors who know their business. As a result, there's not really a false note or misstep in the film.

It also excels because it avoids the sort of pitfalls that one would expect from a typical Hollywood film that deals with an Important Sensitive Subject: the righteous indignation is kept to a minimum, and the temptation to "make it personal" for the main characters is likewise moderated. Instead, "Spotlight" makes itself about the work of news reporting, and is refreshingly subtle and nuanced in both its tone and its mise en scene. A superb, "textbook" drama.
fantastic 
I absolutely loved this movie from beginning to end
A story that needs to be told is handled with great care here. The actors greatest strength in this film is how understated and therefore believable their performances were.
An unremarkable looking movie about a remarkable group of people. Spotlight is well made, compelling, and stacked with some of the best working actors out there. Tackling the church sexual abuse scandal of the early 2000s, Spotlight has a barn burner of a story and it knows. The best praise I could give this movie is that it plays like All The President's Men. The film shows the nitty, gritty of investigative journalism and it does so with zero fanfare or pompous preaching. These journalists are simply doing their job and attempting to tell a vital, damming story. Even when it's characters get overworked and angry about the various road blocks in their way, it's always in service of the story they are working on. They aren't looking to change the world or get credit for exposing a story that needs exposing. They simply want this story told for the victims' sake and sanity and to deter future victims.
Spotlight is one of the most well-done and important films I have ever seen. Impeccable acting. I typically look at my watch once or twice during a movie. During Spotlight, it didn't even occur to me to do so, as I was so intrigued. I am quite sure I would have stayed intrigued even had it been an hour or more longer. Thank you to everyone who was brave enough to make this film!
Mark refolo needs to take his hands out of his pockets. Are your trousers falling down? The film with so interesting. I kept thinking about that documentary deliver us from evil which is probably base on what this film is based on maybe, i don't know. Flat film but didn't matter cuz it was interesting and engaging. I applaud films like this great stuff. Gonna watch that bank film soon.
Good interesting movie, a little overrated in my book.  Its just a very good adaptation of a real life event.  I give a litle bit more credit to original movies than these.   Acting is superb and cast is great.  Much like The Big Short, it looks more like a documentary than anything else.
'Spotlight' and 'The Big Short' will forever be linked, which speaks to their quality - both based on true stories that effected lots of people, both great dramas, both Oscar-nominated films out within weeks of each other. 'Spotlight' has some laughs, but not as many as 'The Big Short', mostly due to the dark nature of the material - the uncovering of Catholic priests molesting and raping young children, for over four decades. 

The Boston Globe investigative journalism team ("Spotlight") - from when newspapers were still relevant, in 2001 - consisting of Mike (Ruffalo), Sacha (McAdams), Matt (d'Arcy James) and their editor, Robby (Keaton) are tasked with finding out if an accused priest is in fact guilty of child molestation. This comes about when their bosses, Marty (Schreiber, still looking like Sabretooth) - new at the newspaper - & Ben (Slattery) try to shake things up when they smell a cover up. It turns out there's far more than one priest and one victim - some of the true stories told by the victims as the reporters uncover the facts are truly horrendous and gut-wrenching. Definitely not easy to hear, as you know it has happened in real life, and probably hundreds of thousands of times over the last century.

How Ruffalo is only up for Best Supporting Actor, and not Best Actor, is past me! McAdams, on the other hand, is not that utilised - both due to the ensemble cast, I guess. Keaton and Schreiber are good, as is Tucci as the crusading small-time lawyer, but Ruffalo really steals the show, with his heart on the line and it shows in his performance. It's really a great film about newspaper reporting, but is told so well and deals with such an important topic that it is actually enjoyable to watch everyone excel - including director McCarthy, who already has form with 'Win Win'. Certainly not "fun", but a great film.
Enjoyed the script it was well written but I feel like the film is a bit overhyped because of its prestigious award that being "Best Picture".
Being a Catholic, this is easily one of the hardest films I have ever sat through simply because, by and large, it's true, and because a large portion of it is true, it's heartbreaking. This movie goes straight in for the kill and hits hard. It is a monumental film, one of the best journalism movies ever, and an important film that should be seen, especially by Catholics simply because of the validity of its topic. One of the best films of the year...no question about it.
Very interesting story development and treatment of a sensitive storyline. I had nightmares after
A story like this one deserves its best picture status
Outstanding movie. Well written about a subject that still needs to be discussed and a time in history that needs to be known. Extremely well acted. Plenty to talk about after the movie. A must see.
Just make a documentary! But, wow -- the cast is exceptional.
perfectly paced; solid ensemble acting. felt like a documentary.
I was raised very Catholic and no longer practice and do not consider myself such.  I honestly do not see what everyone is raving about with this movie. I almost fell asleep during the first 30 minutes it is very slow moving!  The only reason I gave it 2 stars is because of the acting talent.  Some of the limes are so badly written it's almost laughable.  There is no chemistry between the actors.  The cast is seriously lacking in diversity.  This story has been told too many times and I was hoping that possibly the movie would add a different perspective to it.  Instead it just beat the same add dead horse we have heard for years.  Same old stuff just repackaged.  I have no idea how this movie got a nomination for best directing when the majority of it takes place in one room!
4.75 stars.  This movie was great.  Solid performances from this ensemble of talented actors and actresses with Mark Ruffalo at his best.  An intriguing story told.  It amazes me that things like this are happening in the world and is covered up.  This is a story that needed to be brought to the attention of the world.  I highly recommend this one.
A brilliant, tragic story.  Very well acted, quite disturbing in the best possible way.
Terrible story but one that needed to be told. The movie was very interesting.
I remember reading these stories in 2002 like they described a train wreck I couldn't look away from. seeing HOW they were gathered is fascinating. Any of us who are in the church "business" have to take account of this as we ask where the people are.
A textbook example of good film making, which serves it well for the most part, but sometimes it feels like the film is playing it a little too safe.  Pitch perfect acting on all fronts, and some of the shots in the film say more than the words and actions of characters do.  The emotional ramifications of the church's actions are kept at an intellectual arm's length, which dulled their impact somewhat.
Me encanto como pudieron representar la historia me pareciÃ³ bastante precisa.  Muy buena pelÃ­cula.
Amazing movie! Stellar cast!
A modern day All the Presidents Men. Great ensemble drama.
Great writing, skillful directing and very well acted (Keaton, Ruffalo, McAdams, Tucci). Spotlight shows a true story that most be told to the world.
This is a hard hitting film that needed to be made. Fascinating watching how stories get told and made me have more respect for journalists. I loved Mark Rufflo's performance in this.
A very good story translating into a very great movie with great performances and a terrific message.
A
Bom filme, sobre um tema importante, mas acho que já foram feitos filmes do gênero muito melhores, como "The Insider", de 1999, que é superior em todos os aspectos. 
Acho que faltou um pouco de ritmo, dinâmica e tensão. O roteiro é muito unidimensional, e não explora os dramas paralelos. Mas vale a pena.
Journalist have been the inspiration of numerous films, going from the best of them "All the President´s Men" to the dark and overlooked "Zodiac", so what does "Spotlight" offers that would make it stand out? The answer is the shocking/disturbing nature of its subject matter. 
The film tells the true events that lead up to the publication an investigation regarding numerous Catholic Church child abuse cases in Boston, by the investigation team "Spotlight" of the Boston Globe Newspaper. 
Just by taking a look to the cast this film has, I was interested in watching this film as most of these actors I really like, and this film didn't disappoint me. "Spotlight" counts with solid acting by its entire impressive cast (even though most of them are wasted in bland roles) with the standout being Mark Ruffalo stealing every scene he is in, a sharply written screenplay that never loses its realism, some good doses of comedy, a simple piano based score that works when its used, a flat but beautiful cinematography, McCarthy's directing is focused and straightforward, which is exactly what's need in this story; the story is shocking and will send chills to you spine as it goes along, a slow pacing that's allows the audience to understand the magnitude of the subject, editing that keeps you wanting to know more, the characters come across as real people, and the way they handled this extremely delicate, shocking, disturbing and extremely important subject matter is remarkable as they don't overplay it and they don't go to graphic scenes, they just say what's relevant and show how it destroy hundreds of lives. But even if this film has a lot of greatness, it's greatest element (the storytelling) is also is biggest flaw as the characters are forgettable and most of them lack personality, thus making this film a hollow film to watch.
"Spotlight" is a well-made, and engaging film but is overall forgettable. It handles its subject matter wisely and will start interesting conversations. Undeniably one of the best films of 2015 (possibly the best), it is definitely worth watching.
Spotlight [McCarthy, 2015] A showcase of distinguished portrayals in a compelling film that is both thrilling and vital. 10/10
A bit boring due to the cinematographer's uninspiring  camera work. Nevertheless, "Spotlight" intrigues us with its fact based story thanks to a well-developed script and an assemble cast who gives it their all. The director should have been more energetic when it comes to telling the story. Yes, the central conflict about the Catholic priests is haunting and serious, but don't make it a yawn fest simply because it's a journalist movie. Make it like a big event with high stakes and more drama. Have the characters in danger or something that will make me worry about them. Still, it was good, just not that great.
An outstanding movie that follows the path of the Boston Globe and their outstanding research crew called "Spotlight."  It goes behind the story of pedophiles in the Catholic Church and how the journalist identified more then 239 priests of 1,500 priests in the Boston area who molested up to 1,000 victims in the Boston area alone.
Rating: 98%
With a gripping story, amazing cast, and well-done direction, Spotlight deals with a mature subject with respect and ease, giving any viewer a good time at the theater or at home.
I came into this film thinking it was going to be slow and a struggle to get through. Boy was I wrong! This is easily one of the best films I've seen so far in this young year. Spotlight is a research team for the Boston Glove that investigate things in more depth. When new editor in chief Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) comes to the Globe he wants the newspaper to mean something again. He instructs Spotlights chief Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton) along with his team made up of the veteran Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James), the only female on the team Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and then the one always looking for the truth Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo). Together Robinson has them look into the molestation charges and cover up by the Catholic church in the Boston area. Soon enough they begin to uncover more and more leading to an ever bigger issue that doesn't just affect Boston, but possible the whole world. The film also stars Stanley Tucci as Mitchell Garabedian a lawyer that is fighting the church and also John Slattery as a fellow editor named Ben Bradlee Jr who helps to uncover what's going on. The movies performances are absolutely fantastic. You feel for the characters and the pacing moves it along quite well. I never once was bored watching this regardless of some of the very morbid storyline features. Overall, fantastic film that I highly recommend anyone give a look!
Such a difficult movie to watch. A story woven perfectly by director Tom McCarthy with such Ana amazing cast to help him. I was absolutely speechless by the end.
Filme de jornalismo = <3!
Procedural, yet quick; quiet, yet very loud in the power of its amazing, small moments.
Porno para comunicadores sociales
Good but overrated. This was no "All The President"s Men." Simply not crackling and gripping as expected. All performances were excellent, led by Keaton, but Oscar worthy is debatable. All the unknown actors and bit roles very much out-shined the bigger performances. Oscar nod for Rachel McAdams for mostly taking notes on a pad is perplexing to say the least. 

Overall did not live up to the hype based on nominations. Direction was excellent and worthy of nod but could not create the tension it needed. It was easy to lose track of all the names and characters that are mentioned in rapid-fire fashion throughout.  Most dissapointing was Liev Schreiber in a very under developed role.
Can't say enough good things about this movie. Performances were pitch perfect and the delivery of these horrifying facts is astoundingly even tempered.
engrossing. everyone needs to see it. (The Church) doesn't just rob these kids of their youths. it robs them of their Faith. You shall be exposed.
GREAT!!!!!!!! Option!! En México EN PRIMERA PLANA Vayan a verla
Tackling the difficult subject of sexual abuse within the Church, the spotlight team did a textbook job of investigative journalism to uncover the truth. The entire cast in this film shines and allows the drama to unfold in a very natural and authentic way.
While it was a good story with some great performances by the actors I don't know that I really see it as a best picture beating out the Revenant and the Big Short.  I thought the Big Short has some real originality and the Revanant just had that epic feel.  I guess this was in the vein of All the Presidents Men but the Big Short felt more relevant to me.
Well. It hasn't been.. dramatized. No real struggle or opposition in revealing the truth. I was shocked of course by the number of cases they'll found out, but that is the end of it.
Fantastic film. Impressively well put together; no-frills attached storytelling. Compelling from start to finish, and clearly the work of a talented bunch. AND it's apparently directly influenced by Sidney Lumet's style?! This is a film.
Phenomenal. Rather than exploring a story they tell you as it is, filmmaking at its best.
Powerful story, disturbing and devastating stuff amplified with solid performances.
Spotlight is one of those perfect movies that comes along every once in a while. I love this movie and think it should get the Oscar for best movie. Go see it and you'll know what I mean.
A must see, very good cast and well acted. Not good subject matter but amazing what these reporters did covering this story.
It's easily the best movie of the year at least for me.It was amazing.I can't stop shaking.I'm in such a shock.I couldn't believe most of the things I saw and the fact that they really have happened in this lifetime,on this planet makes me sick."Spotlight" is not a very artistic movie but it is a movie that deals with real issues and tries to open some eyes and ears and to be honest,for me,this is the kind of cinema that is worth watching.I love fiction and fantasy to unhealthy extends,but this stuff is the most important and most rewarding.Ruffalo's performance was in the spotlight for me,and I think he just outdid himself again.He was a force!McAdams was also exceptionally good,but overall all the performances were great.I swear "Spotlight" is the movie that you can't easily discard.
based on true events, no wonder this film was in Oscars ears ringing. incredible film based on the Boston globe department named Spotlight which uncovered the molestation of over 1000 victims due to the Catholic Church and over 249 priests accused of these crimes. great cast, excellent story. a must see.
Two stars solely for the subject matter of which I approve thoroughly - McCarthy's tone boils down to "if everyone in the Newsroom talks quickly it'll seem like things are more important" - I could tell an actor directed this. There was no conflict in the Newsroom everyone just agreed with each other which missed a trick I think - and mark ruffallo's performance was highly distracting he wasn't warm or engaging and I felt the other actors had to act around rather than with him, he seemed so engrossed in his character acting he couldn't truly interact with the others, who, by the way, all did a great job. I didn't like the way this film handled itself  at all - it was like a bad TV show. McCarthy and Ruffallo ruined this for me, and as the director and an actor with the most screentime this was bad, everyone else did the best they could. I'm not giving this extra points just because of the subject matter which every other critic seems to want to do.
Doesn't get into the thick of it like I thought it would. It's also slow going. I fell asleep a few times.
Spotlight is great and memorable movie that stands as a great depiction of real journalism.The  subject matter is big enough to anger anyone and anyone will probably leave this movie shocked by its scope.Paedophilia in the Catholic church is something that is sometimes mentioned but this movies shows you its proportion. The power religious representatives can have on man is terrible really and such atrocities should always be denounced and fight off. However we should go beyond that as paedophilia  not only is a huge problem in the catholic church  but everywhere defenceless children might be.Spotlight is definitely a must see and the acting especialy by Ruffalo and  Keaton worthy of every praise.
Would not recommend for a date night. One of the darkest movies I have ever seen. Great acting but too depressing.
Excellent film . Tastefully done . Great performances . Despicable what goes on and is covered up in the church.
Excellent movie. Such a heavy topic, but they handled it really well.
Spotlight highlights a dark and exploitative event using aesthetically-crisp direction, fluid dialogue and exceptional performances from its all-star ensemble. The film's depth in storytelling as well as it's gripping portrayals makes it one of the year's best. 4.5/5
Probably best dry-facts-based, yet not documentary movie I ever seen. Scenario, cast, performance - everything worked exceptionally well (excepting for Ruffalo overplaying at times). The greatest pleasure was to see that creators managed to avoid over-dramatization of characters and plot. Pretty much Hollywood-spoiled, I expected much more drama, action and pomp and it didn't come (to my great pleasure), instead showing characters being human, story told with utmost detail yet not boring and not exaggeratedly heroic... All in all - a must to watch.
Saw SPOTLIGHT today, an intelligent and graceful story of the Boston Globe investigation of sexual abuse by priests and the attempts to bury the story. This is the best story of real journalism since ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, with the unraveling and digging into old files and leads. The tone is a bit cool, but it works for the subject matter. Great cast headed by an emotional Mark Ruffalo, the racing brain of  Michael Keaton and a slightly quirky Stanley Tucci. Well directed and edited to keep the info flowing while showing off Boston locations. Worthy Oscar film!
A cruel story, told in a beautiful way.
great script, great performances, but i would have liked to see a little more cinematic artistry stuck in among the procedure
A journalistic fight against morality that, is more than a true & depressing story, its a need to know -- a story that's well worthy of the Oscars. The realism & intensity of the plot is a stunning trace. It's like a tense documentary with these diverse & well visualized characters that, tries to bring this incredible story to life, a story that will bring both suffering and horror to them. It's a pure dialog-driven film that might be too plot-centric, and due to that fact are characters not given that much playground for any depth nor development. A fact-based drama like this flick isn't for everybody, but it is based on a true story -- just the realism, clever and flawless directing, might bring an Oscar to the 'Spotlight'. 

Personal rating: 75/100 
Critical rating: 96/100
The subject matter is revealing and the film handles this with such grace and balance. This is so remarkably well-written & acted that it turns a seemingly drab topic into a riveting story to engage in. This is not only one of the best of 2015 but probably one of the finest real-life drama movies I have seen!
I think this movie is a must watch. Not for the feint of heart and for those who are easily offended tho. - Also, based on real life, fact-based events.
Reminiscent of the classic 70s films such as 'Three days of the condor' and 'All the president's men,'  (unintentional Redford esque' theme!) this tackles a true story subject that have ruffled and will quite a few institutional feathers.
Very powerful ensemble cast with Mark Ruffalo and Stanley Tucci in my opinion the stand out actors.
A great contender for best screenplay oscar.
nice ensemble performance
.gripping and well done overall..
Such a good movie about such an important topic. Makes me proud to be from Massachusetts!
Excellent!! It started off slow, but once it got going stomach was in knots. Mark Ruffalo was superb. This film is important to see.
I want to tell all the people in the world to start reading the Al-Qur'an, not that i'm fanatic whatsoever, me myself become a Muslim just recently, couple of weeks, but i don't know why i feel 'ikhlas' and start reading the Al-Qur'an and the content is amazing (well of course because it's a Wahyu from Allah SWT). A priest is not a guarantee that he is a holly man, he's still a human being. I think the people in US can think for themselves about all of these moral degrading actions covered by so called Catholic Catherdal church or something, one thing for sure you worship the wrong god, your religion is long gone, your bible is not relevant anymore. I hope the rest of people in this world would open their eyes and find the truth/get a Hidayah from Allah SWT.. :)
Excelente filme, quem não assistiu pode ir comprando o ingresso
Powerful and well portrayed. Stories like this are very rare.
The 'Spotlight', based on true events, lead by Mark Ruffalo is a catching and probably eye opening film for most of the viewers. The script is out of the world as it manages to shape an image of this HUGE case. If the Academy Award had a category for "Most important film" this should be a nominee without a doubt. It's probably one of the most memorable film I've ever watched. Amazing work. Speechless.
A winner. Clever, sharp and edifying.
Spotlight
I've never watched a movie where I thought I was seeing a commercial for a particular product running through the entire length of the movie until today. Today I went to see Spotlight and it did not take long before thinking I was watching an extended commercial for pleated pants. I never watched a movie where the entire movie cast seemed to be shopping at the same store. This oddity took away from the movie and what a great movie it is. 
I wonder, how stupid does a person need to be before they believe a man can love Jesus so much they don't want to get laid anymore? How dumb is that person? 
I give this movie 5 stars
A superb film and for me, having being raised in a Roman Catholic school, it is emotionally painful yet truthful right through the soul.
An ensemble cast that actually delivers a real quality movie, rare.  An expose of the Catholic church with investigative journalism portrayed is riveting.  Not a feel good movie, but a necessary evil that needs to be continually dealt with.
I've heard people call this nbc procedural 

Not fair assessment but it's not griping but rather thoughtful
A very serious topic and story is handled in the best ways by an ensemble cast helmed by Tom McCarthy's careful direction. Spotlight is the best film of the year, and deserves the attention it gets.
Just a delight from start to finish I rarely notice cinematography bit this was outstanding
Influencer, strong, dramatic, powerful. Very good direction and script.
Powerful, yet restrained, effective, thought-provoking and tense, Spotlight is a flawless example of what a perfect drama & thriller should be. A wonderful depiction of what investigative journalism is and how to make this right into a movie, Tom McCarthy's gem is a already and instant classic that easily could be considered as one of the biggest favorites at this year's Oscars. 

Based on the true story of how the so called "Spotlight" team of The Boston Globe investigated and uncovered the decade-long continuous sexual abuse in the Catholic Church in Boston, the movie impresses with its overall approach towards the story and the facts. Just like the team of journalist which handled the topic, director Tom McCarthy makes sure that the movie does the same. Restrained, focused, slow, but steadily developed, the story builds up the tension and the thrills to a sky-high level even without a single act of violence. It is a journalist drama that simply depicts how a true investigative journalism should be conducted and everyone who is or feels himself connected to the world of media, communications and journalism will be completely delighted with this movie. Another achievement of director Tom McCarthy is the fact that even though this is a journalist drama, there is enough attention paid to the victims. The multiple victims are not dehumanized as persons of journalistic interest, but do share their stories in a way that nobody, even a devoted, skeptic catholic, could remain untouched. 

In addition to the incredible way of handling the story, the cast ensemble of Spotlight is what also turns this movie into a classic. Michael Keaton, Marc Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Live Schreiber and the rest, are amazing. Without depicting their characters as "investigative" heroes, all of them are just professionals and human beings. They are people who are devoted to their jobs, who make mistakes, who have their concerns, worries and doubts. Special attention should be paid to the trio Keaton- Ruffalo - Schreiber. Michael Keaton has a commanding presence and absorbs the indirect tension which different institutions tried to put on his team. Marc Ruffalo's determination, energy and stubbornness won him an Oscar nomination for Best Male Supporting Act and even if he does not win it (if we consider Syvlester Stallone the favorite in the category), his performance will remain unforgettable. Last, but not least, some of the viewers (like myself) might be delighted by the performance and depiction of the executive editor Martin Baron (Liev Schreiber). Schreiber's character has the presence, behavior and charisma of what the perfect executive editor should be. 

In conclusion, Spotlight is definitely one of the top movies of 2015. A must see journalist drama, it will make you further explore this topic on the internet long after you see the final credits. With 6 Oscar nominations, currently it is almost a safe bet that this is the movie that could challenge the expected domination of The Revenant.
Nos encontramos con una de las mejores películas sobre el periodismo en la historia del cine.  Junto a "All The President's Men", "Network" y "Good Night And Good Luck", aparece "Spotlight", la recreación de la investigación llevada a cabo por el Boston Globe sobre el abuso sexual infantil llevado a cabo en el  interior de la iglesia católica.  El director Tom McCarthy (autor de las espléndidas "The Station Agent", "The Visitor" y "Win Win") nos muestra de una forma emocionante, envolvente y contundente cómo el equipo de investigación de "Spotlight" va desenvolviendo esta madeja con implicaciones no solo religiosas, sino también políticas y económicas.  Los actores sabiamente le dan el protagonismo a la historia y eso los hace estupendos: Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci y Brian D'Arcy James no tienen falla: son perfectos.  "Spotlight" es una película formalmente sobresaliente, que logra cautivar al espectador de principio a fin y que denuncia algo que desde el 2001 no hemos querido enfrentar como debe ser. Para esto es el cine.
Deserved to win oscar!!  Fantastic movie
The Investigative Journalist section of The Boston Globe, known as Spotlight sends viewers on the tough uncomfortable subject of The Boston Archdiocese Scandal of systematic Child Abuse from numerous preists. The Film shows how hard trying to crack the case can be when the entire City is under the Church's Thumb.
Beautifully written, beautifully directed and beautifully acted. "Spotlight" is a well-adapted story that should end up on the front cover page.
A spectacular story on a news team that covered the priest sex scandal in 2001. Michael Keaton leads this group of free speech crusaders to unravel the truth behind Boston's backbone, the church. Though Keaton isn't nominated this year, Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams are. And they are beyond doubt desurving of their nominations. I look forward to seeing how this one turns out.
For a drama it was nicely made.  Thriller, Mystery and Suspense ? Definitely no.   The truth revealed was really disturbing.
Superb cast. An incredible and enlightening film.
Amazingly balanced, sensitive, well acted documentation of this tragic episode in Boston.  Once the story got going, it held my interest every minute, even into the credits.
Spotlight is on my top 5 favorite movies of 2015 list! Gracefully well made as it delves into sexual abuse scandal by Catholic priests in the Boston area.
Spotlight is the true story of an investigative branch of the Boston Globe who unearthed a massive cover-up among the Catholic Church and the astonishing number of child-molesting priests that were never brought to justice back in 2002 and with intense acting and riveting storytelling, it may be the best film based on journalism of all time. Directed by actor/writer Tom McCarthy with gusto, he certainly made a bold move taking on this project that paints what many go to for guidance in a really ugly light and you cringe more and more as you learn just how many priests were involved in this scandal. The Spotlight team is made up of character actor Brian d'Arcy James, and big-hitters: Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton, and Mark Ruffalo in one of his strongest performances to date remaining subdued and believable with a boiling intensity in his vendetta for justice. The other supporting players are just as great with an unrecognizable Liev Schreiber, Mad Men's John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, and many others, rounding out a terrific ensemble cast that is more quality than quantity. If journalism interests you, this is your home run right here because it is not a flashy film at all and takes its time with the characters researching, interviewing, and writing this case for their paper and it's a great indication of how journalism can do some good as well! The film also plays fair and while it chastises the Church for burying it's secrets, it also shows that the reporters aren't perfect either and have made a few mistakes of their own, it would've been too easy to make this a witch-hunt film, but they thankfully don't go that route. This is a tense, realistic, and brainy drama about getting the facts straight and taking on one of the biggest cover-ups in history and it is immensely satisfying by the end and it's re-assuring to see the media in a positive light for a change.
I'm about to write the 5 words I never thought I would ever write about a move, THIS IS A PERFECT MOVIE!!!!!!  So, my wife and another couple who we are friends with decided to go to the movies, and my wife says let's watch this one I heard it was good.  I had not even seen the trailer for the movie, all I knew was that it had a killer cast.  Needless to say I went with no expectations, that is until I read what the movie is about while I was in the line.
This is a movie about journalists.  I say this because movies about journalists tend to be boring and tedious.  Never in a million years I thought that a movie about journalists (other than "All the President's Men") would be so exciting, engaging, thrilling, and powerful.
Lets start with the cast.  This is a stellar ensamble.  First of we have a fresh off an Academy Award nomination Michael Keaton (Robbie Robinson) doing some great work as the head of Spotlight.  You have Rachel McAdams, Bryan d'Arcy James, Liev Schrieber, and John Slattery, all ding great understated work.  It is not showy, it is just so good that you forget they are actors and you actually think this is a documentary.  Stanley Tucci with the small amount of screen time he is given manages (again) to pull you in to the point where you can't wait for the next time he is on screen.  Tucci truly is one of the best character actors there is.  
The real standout of this movie is Mark Ruffalo. Oh my God, what a performance! This is not a showy movie, so there isn't a lot of scenes where the actors can get all dramatic and showy, but he has three scenes near the end of the movie that take you from cheering and thinking "YEAH!" to welling up from the rawness of his performance.  Close to the end of the movie, the character having lost his faith we see him at the entrance of a church watching a choir rehearse and the look that he has just breaks you down.  All of the cast does great work, but he gives an award worthy performance.
I thought Tom McCarthy won't amaze me as he moved away from his usual stories . Yet, he did bring us a very well told story  with solid performances
Stunning acting (what a cast!), well-written and well-made movie. Plus based on bloodcurdling true story. I don't need anything more.
Damn near perfection.
this movie was like a kick to the gut, a hard one. being about Catholic churchs and western culture.. it's still somehow connected to the whole world. when i think about India, i can easily relate. 
before i used to think only dull, boring movies get Oscars, but i was stupid. this movie really deserves the best award. 
Tom McCarthy, he's an excellent director. loved the way he swiftly ran the whole movie based on the real thing. i found myself feeling for the ones, and that.. is hard! 
talking about acting, it was very very good. especially Robby.
I think it's crazy how many films are starting to come out about failures in trusted systems. It's so interesting to see this new information age we live in bring everything to light. Corruption can't hide anymore, not for long anyways. Interesting stuff.

I found this film to be really thought-provoking, and thrilling especially, based on the performances. Mark Ruffalo, in particular, really killed it - bringing so much passion and explosive energy to his character.

The story unwraps in such an intriguing way; the audience is placed in the same arena as the journalists and we remain gobsmacked throughout the entire uncovering of the church's exploitation of children in what seems to be such a trivial and primal urge. You really feel that betrayal that so many characters in the film express.

These "based on true story" films are so interesting, because it makes you wonder what the other side is, but something like this is painted so evenly that you wonder what the Catholic church's interest is in abusing adolescents and proceeding to protect such a widespread controversy, rather than eviscerating the offenders and trying to change the image. Maybe we're reaching a point that things are better now, but that's all thanks to the story in the film and the Boston Globe's bravery in standing up for others who were afraid to do so.

Definitely a rock-solid drama. Expect some Oscar noms.
De lo mejor que he visto para este aÃ±o, aparte de Steve Jobs, una historia que se sabe, se oye, pero no se tiene que olvidar y que mejor que ver cÃ³mo fue que alguien se atreviÃ³ a hacer la denuncia que dio jaque mate.
Amazing!! It's that simple
Not just a few bad apples. See it. Play it in every cinema. The Cardinal was then assigned to one of the most important churches in Rome.  First class film on all counts, excellent casting, direction, editing, cinematography. The story of our times, and many times before that, and no doubt more of them to be found out as and when they occur. Mind your children. And btw, Keaton consigns to history the abominable Birdman.
A true story that shows the importance of real journalism in our society. How long before investigative journalism is gone?
Filme mais que obrigatório para entender o que significa ser jornalista. Elenco excepcional, roteiro forte e atual e direção segura fazem de Spotlight um dos filmes mais fortes do ano.
One Of The Best And Most Important Movies I've Ever Seen and I see a lot of 'em. This film shows how professional journalists work to uncover a tremendous story - said professionalism so sadly lacking in today's media world - with hard work, dedication and honesty. How finding out the truth and exposing it was crucial to bringing hard to grasp facts to the focus of the entire world. I see Oscar winners written all over this picture. Best Picture right on to Best Male Actor - and two of them should be nominated here, Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton. Terrific performances by both. This movie moves right along, bringing it all together in a way that almost numbs your mind by the time it's done. When the end credits roll and it shows how this single story brought out atrocious child molestation scandals, not only in America, but all over the world, and you see the long, long list of places, you can hardly manage to get up from your seat and walk out into the world. You are stunned. This is not a spoiler, but I have to say, at one point in this film, without a word spoken, you watch the camera scroll down pages of names and facts, and in the background you hear a chorus of innocent young voices singing a Christmas carol, the hair on the back of your neck rises....you KNOW you are watching something brilliant. And that's what this production is, brilliant. Without question one of the best pictures you will ever see. And the one that will have you thinking and talking about it for a long, long time after.
As good as I wanted it to be it never reached a level that I really wanted. Modest and great performances really make the ensemble stand out, not any one actor.
Review: Spotlight
This seems to be a Winter movie season full of topical films with tough subject matter. Movies like Room, Concussion and The Danish Girl are already making waves. So is Spotlight, director Tom McCarthy's (The Station Agent, The Visitor) account of the Boston Globe journalism team that took on the Catholic Church and helped uncover decades of child abuse at the hands of priests. Understandably, Spotlight is one of hardest movies to watch this year simply because the subject is so unsettling. Hearing detailed accounts of child abuse isn't supposed to be easy to hear, and while the film thankfully doesn't spend enormous amounts of time wallowing in those details, it doesn't pull its punches either. McCarthy and co-writer Josh Singer deserve a lot of credit for writing what I believe is the best script of the year. It's a talkative movie, for sure, but the dialogue doesn't feel phony or unnatural, and wise decisions were made in choosing exactly what details to include to help create a motion picture that would be informative but also intriguing and well-paced.
Of course, a good script is useless without a talented cast and this one sure is a line-up: Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Brian d'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci and Billy Crudup round out an amazing cast supported by a who's-who of veteran character actors, not to mention an uncredited voice performance by Richard Jenkins. This cast shines, and even though the nominations haven't even been announced yet, it's difficult seeing any other movie taking home SAG's Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture award. The reason I'm making this prediction is because this is a rare film where every actor is so essential to the movie's success. Nobody feels tacked on. Nobody feels like a cameo. I also don't pity SAG nor the Academy because picking who from this cast deserves nominations is not going to be easy. Attention seems to be focused on Michael Keaton as far as awards buzz is concerned, and that's fine. He has rarely been better. If I was able to pick, however, I might shine that Oscar light on Mark Ruffalo or Brian d'Arcy James if only because their characters seem more emotionally invested in the investigation than the others and this gives both actors lots of chances to shine. Spotlight really is a master class in acting and it can't be denied that these actors have raised an already great script to an even higher level.
As I already mentioned, the film is well-paced. At just over two hours of talking and talking and talking, some movies may have become boring or repetitive, but Spotlight avoids this pitfall. Editor Tom McArdle has trimmed whatever fat there may have been well and I really can't pick out any scenes that I would have left out.
I have always loved movies about journalism. There usually seems to be a real sense of urgency to them and they usually bring out the best from their casts. Spotlight excels in its genre. I've said many times that my favorite thing to see on screen is great actors performing great scripts-but add to that a movie that is really about something important-you just can't beat that. Spotlight may not have been on everyone's list, but it should be. This one is a major contender for best of the year. 9/10?
Very good and thought provoking
It's good what they did. But it was also kinda boring too
Absolutely phenomenal, heart-wrenching, and infuriating from start to finish. I've been sitting in silence for the past 20 minutes letting the message of this film settle with me. From a journalist perspective, Spotlight is an incredible achievement, showing the power and importance of real journalism in the modern world. In many ways, Spotlight is a much more difficult film to digest than its main Oscar competitor, The Revenant. Not to take away from Alejandro or Leo, but Spotlight is by far the most important and powerful film of 2K15. Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo prove once again that they are forces to be reckoned with.
A powerful,  important film that makes you angry without resorting to shameless tactics.
Damm important movie. Real. That's the Roman Catholic Church. A giant cult rooted in Rome. I just very much wish the movie distinguished between good real Biblical Christian churches and the church of Rome. Only by Jesus, who is God directly forgiving our sins can we be saved. Much real awesome power in real Biblical Jesus churches.
9/10 pelicula ágil con montaje y edición frenetica, bien dirigida, maravillosamente actuada por Keaton, Mc Adams y sobretodo Ruffalo. Recuerda a esos "drama-thrillers" de los 70s, coralmente actuados como Todos los hombres del Presidente o Network, poder que mata.
amazing cast to a amazing story
Spotlight has my vote for "Best Picture."
Don't care for pedophiles or covering it up, but just too sad and preachy. Mark Ruffalo couldn't show an emotional range if you punched him in the balls during a blow job.
In this Academy Award-nominated film, Spotlight (on my Top Ten Films for 2015) reveals the 2002 expose into the Catholic Church's scandal of child molestation and rape by priests taking place at least over two decades.  A  team of Boston Globe reporters begins to investigate  the history of keeping these reports of sexual assault under the radar.

"Spotlight" is based on the true story behind the 2002 exposé into the Catholic Church's cover-up of decades of sexual abuse. Unflinching in its focus, "Spotlight" underscores  a subtle outrage and sense of resignation about our institutions' power. We watch as the "Spotlight " team-named for undercover exposés of difficult-to-prove cases-- chases down leads; goes through archives with missing documents; and interviews priests, judges, and victims.  The investigative Spotlight team at the Boston Globe is defined by their tenacity, not by their personal stories, [except for one reporter]. Read the entire review at: www.unhealedwound.com
Excellent acting and a very compelling story.
Un elenco inmejorable para una pelicula que habla sobre temas delicados, pero reales. El verdadero periodista siempre debe buscar la verdad aunque incomode o no sea del agrado de la mayoria de las personas....
No es un tema del que todos quieran hablar (es un tema bastante esquivado por la sociedad). 

Esto fue una investigación hecha en Boston ''Globe'' hace par de décadas atrás por el periódico SPOTLIGHT (o grupo que se unió y se autodenomino SPOTLIGHT) sobre los abusos a menores que pasaban dentro de las iglesias por los sacerdotes. Te hace pensar que vas a tener problemas de fé hacia la religión pero realmente no estas quebrantando tu fé hacia algo creado por el mismo humano, lo que estas rompiendo en si es tu fé hacia la humanidad -que hizo esas atrocidades- (tal vez el ''pederasta'' no tuvo una buena infancia y piensa que desquitándose de esa manera estará mas cerca de ser ''amado'' y de que entiendan su situación sabiendo que esta perjudicando mental y emocionalmente a otro ser *en este caso a alguien menor que aún no ha vivido la vida como tal y no se ha desarrollado del todo* pero la verdad es que lo que hace esta horriblemente mal - es como culpar a alguien de ''terrorismo'' pensando que lo esta haciendo por su "Dios" cuando en si lo esta haciendo por su propio "ego" y usa palabras creadas por el humano como ''escudo'' para poder realizar su ''acto''. Es un tema delicado y complicado a la vez...bueno, el ser humano de por si es un ''animal'' complicado de entender y educar). 

En fin, la recomiendo teniendo en cuenta que dicho contenido puede herir par de pobres almas...a mi no. Despues de todo, no creo en todo lo que el humano a creado -una casa con una cruz hecha de cemento no tiene la culpa. Todos sabemos quienes son los culpables...la humanidad-....les dejo aquí uno de los famosos links sobre dicha investigación: http://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/specials/clergy

Actuación y dirección: esta bien hecho todo y el elenco es brillante. Sin duda el que se roba el show es Mark Ruffalo. Se que algunos pensarán que lo es Keaton (que hace buen trabajo) pero Ruffalo sin duda es el que se lleva todo el mérito. McAdams también esta genial (la admiro desde el filme RED EYE con Cillian Murphy/2005). En fin, el director Tom McCarthy hace excelente labor guiando a este elenco y crew hacia buen camino.

Banda Sonora y Editaje: La música esta fantástica. Le da armonía a todo. En cuanto a editaje, esta bien pero en cuanto a guión se refiere, hubiera hecho del filme algo de menos duración (se que es demasiada información y que había que poner practicamente todo en 2 horas y pico pero se podía cortar).

Enjoy! PS: La recomiendo a todos los que le guste el 7mo Arte y los temas retantes y complicados *open minds* - January 11, 2016 review.
Mark Ruffalo irreconocible
Great movie getting the truth out there that these awful religions start with threats and eventually get to rape and cover ups.
Good people are talking about this problem but the movie was just ok. Why is it nominated to be the best picture of the year? Only because of topic?
Watch to know how it happened (great story) and so history never repeats itself. Great movie!
Compelling storyline and wonderfully acted with several really good scenes.  Must see movie.
Insanely good film! Riveting. Fantastic cast, just great storytelling all together. This is a well done script.
http://www.ponderbig.com/spotlight-review/
Best movie I have seen in a very long time!
Though this was a good movie I do believe the only reason it won best picture was due to the subject the film dealt with. That being said it was a story that needed to be told
Gigante importância não apenas pelo assunto investigado, mas também por colocar o bom Jornalismo em destaque e discussão.
Yes, it's a lot to deal with.  So this is about a specialty team of journalists that work for the Boston Globe in 2001.  When they decide to run an exposé piece about the high number of reports of child abuse within the Catholic Church, the entire system is in for a big shake-up.  Now being that I am in my Oscar crunch, I have a very high intake of films and not a lot of time to sit down and crank out these reviews (also, downtime at my day job has all but disappeared entirely, thus making this a twofold problem).  I actually watched this film over a month ago, but I can tell you one thing: it has stayed with me wholly and completely, which isn't something that I can say for a lot of other films I have taken in.  I will say that I felt like this took a good 15 - 20 minutes to get going, which is fine, as you are just getting a non-glamorous introduction to these characters before they get into the full swing of their investigation.  Once it does get going, it holds on to your attention without letting go.  It's such a tremendous ensemble performance from this all-star cast, and you really get a sense of what it is that all of these people do for a living; even if they weren't working on a piece of such high importance, their demeanor wouldn't change all that much because this is people just doing their jobs and trying to do what is right, and the film as a whole never loses grasp of that feeling.  Even the no-name actors that you haven't seen before give complementing gut-wrenching performances, and Spotlight makes you feel like a journalist, sparking your interest in the process of it all.  I have to give a very high commendation to Spotlight because where most films like this would go for the jugular at a moment's notice given the topic at hand, director Tom McCarthy approaches this with a tremendous amount of subtlety, which is something that is becoming increasingly rare to find in film these days.  Spotlight is an excellently made film that is quite hard to watch, given the despicable nature of the subject matter.  This year, I've now seen movies about child abuse and animal abuse, and it will never be something that is an easy thing to get through, so I honestly don't know how much repeat viewing one can get out of this.  For the story it tells, you experience the full spectrum of emotions; you get excited as a promising lead turns into something more, you get upset when you learn about a grown man's previous experience with a priest, and you get downright angry when you see the church trying to sweep this under the proverbial carpet.  I promise you, when you reach the end of this and you get to see a giant wall of text of affected cities, you will have an involuntary reaction in the pit of your stomach.  It's a very good thing that this movie exists, and it is utmost effective at telling a story that needed to be told.
Lead by a phenomenal performance from Mark Ruffalo, Spotlight is an intelligent, well directed, well paced drama that shocks and engages the audience throughout and, no matter how familiar with the subject matter they may be, keeps them guessing as to how the conspiracy will be unravelled.
I curiously went to see this movie. It turned out to be one of the best movies this year.
Great story, acting, direction and production. I think the story didn't translate well to the screen, though.
Great movie - makes you angry, sad and pissed off.
Good one! Classical and well acted ensemble piece about hard working journalists trying to expose the ugly truth.
Very good movie but not quite as good as investigative journalism movies like All The Presidents Men or State of Play (even though that was fiction). If felt a bit rushed. Would have liked to have seen a longer cut.  Still a very worthwhile movie and one of the best of the year.
"Must watch" of the year.
Excellent film with a star-studded cast. Very sad time in our history, however, but a solid portrayal and I felt it was very fair to its subject.
A well researched, well acted, and well directed retelling of the molestation scandal that rocked the Catholic establishment.  One of the best films of the year, no doubt.
"Conhecimento é uma coisa, fé é outra"

Um tapa na cara da sociedade e da igreja católica. Assistir Spotlight é uma  obrigação e ver toda a hipocrisia da igreja. Um filme-denúncia(?), mas que ao mesmo tempo é uma homenagem ao jornalismo old school. Tom McCarthy NÃO TEVE UM PINGO DE MEDO de explorar esse assunto, foi fundo, foi sujo, tocou na ferida, deixou até quem conhecia a história boquiaberto, obrigando parar para uma reflexão em algum momento do longa. Só tenho que aplaudir tamanha coragem.

Mark Ruffalo está em um dos melhores papéis de sua vida, o modo que ele transmite o seu amor e fascínio pelo jornalismo apenas pelo seu jeito e suas feições é de uma perfeição sem tamanho. 

Meu favorito na corrida para Oscar 2016. A incógnita é saber se a Academia vai premiar um filme que aborda esse tipo de assunto.
An interesting story of the Boston Globe's investigation into the Catholic Church's legacy of child abuse and cover-ups, a really enjoyable true story and I thought Mark Ruffalo in particular was great.
This movie is all about tense telephone action: the satisfying click of a flip phone and the sprint for the landline
A notable performance by Mark Ruffalo delivering all his lines over his right shoulder
As a useful alternative I recommend looking for some fresh paint to watch for a couple of hours...
Fantastic movie. Very great acting, very realistic, and very great story. Lots of twists and turns. Made me feel like I was in the newspaper company at the same time
Excellent!!! so well done!... and of course at the end... ¿what would (just in case it would matters to them...) catholic church say about? :) hopefully, One day... The Truth, not their convenient transformed...true... BRILLIANT FILM IN ALL OF HIS SENSE, Specially the way it keeps the audience with that sense of suspense... and moreover without any sample of double moral sense
De entre las películas que desenmascaran los abusos de la iglesia, ésta ha terminado siendo mi favorita, ya que muestra todo el trabajo y compromiso de estos periodistas por investigar todo el mecanismo que rodea a esta institución y gracias al cuál, se han ido denunciando poco a poco estos casos.
I can't put it much better than the consensus. The film is a masterpiece of storytelling highlighting the work of amazing journalists telling one of the most important stories of the past 20 years. Do yourself a favor, watch it.
This is a brilliant film... One of the best of 2015 if not the best
This is an important movie. For those still hiding their heads in the sand about the cover-up by the Catholic Church of the priests' sexuality and morality problems, this movie explains.  Did you know that 50% of priests don't practice celibacy? (Though most of the 50% are having affairs with women.)  There is no Oscar-worthy acting in here, but a very important story. The movie holds one's attention from beginning to end with its pacing and clarity. Every Catholic and former Catholic should see it.  Why is religion dying? Here is the answer.
A great story...told poorly....
La gente de los "periódicos" de PR deben ver esta película y aprender lo que es ser un buen periodista y realizar excelente periodismo realmente imparcial y sin agendas.
First 30 minutes were hard to follow. Would need to watch again to catch every detail.
I lived in Boston, but I never knew about this true story. Great movie!!!
95% on the Ricksta Scale. Very realistic and disturbing account of the Catholic Churches problem priests.
If it were possible to give a film an A++ I would do so.  A home-run.  Compelling and beautifully acted and written.
As a movie in itself, solid acting and direction. Probably the saddest of all the films this season with dark, sad, appalling material as their background. What hurts when we come to the conclusion of the film (and real life investigations) is that there is no resolution, there is no way to fix it, and the guilty have largely gone unpunished. Shame on the Catholic Church. Yeah I fucking said it. Because it's the TRUTH.
Brilliant - just brilliant! Very true to Boston
Very much of a piece with those 70s films about journalists fighting for the truth (namely All the President's Men, a masterpiece that this film clearly wants to be compared to), Spotlight is a solid, well-written, well-researched film that only moves into the inevitable self-important territory that comes with this material a few times ("We're going after the system!"). Here the quiet nature of the film isn't so much an admirable trait as much as an arbitrary characteristic of the proceedings, a subdued piece rather than a subtle one; the central search for evidence often feels less like McCarthy is deliberately seeking to make his own "important" film and more like he's diligently following the blueprints of other, similar, better movies, All the President's Men in particular. These quibbles aside, Spotlight is an excellent work dealing with an important subject, and while it's not the best film of the year, it definitely deserves to be included in that conversation.
The best film of 2015!
It's slow and simplistic. It does the basic minimum and just tells the story of the journalists, however, it doesn't even do it that thoroughly. Certain aspects of the journalists personal lives are hinted at and doors are opened but then they're abandoned. Mark Ruffalo essentially acts the same as he did as the hulk in avengers. The movie also leaves you with a feeling of emptiness like they didn't finish telling the story. They leave out the ramifications of the story.
It feels like a movie made in the 70s, and in a good way. They rarely make movies like these anymore; hard-hitting, critical, and understated. And it's a love letter to investigative journalism, the way it should be. Not bullshit clickbait, but digging deep into stories that matter, come hell or high water.
This is an important film, brutal to watch, necessary story to be told.
A mesmerising film that is superbly acted as a detective plot, yet from the point of view of the media. Ruffalo and Keaton were fantastic. I was left feeling sickened by the Catholic church and had no knowledge of the extent of the crime. Truly appalling. A film not to be missed.
I guess each individual does have different tastes in movies. I just saw this one,  it was pretty good, i can see why it's rated very high. It was well written, well directed, great acting, i actually was very impressed with Ruffalo's performance. I think if i was more into these kind of movies, i would of adore more, but still good movie.
A decent watch and compelling investigative story.
Great journalistic movie, probably the best since All the President's Men. Just a well done story based on true events. It doesn't have the natural humor of most of Tom McCarthy's movies, but it does contain the humanism he brings to each of his movies (lets just forget The Cobbler ever happened). The acting is all top notch, and they truly play as an ensemble, no one really gets to out stage any of the others. Probably the best ensemble cast of the year.
The real life story is engagin on its own, but what makes Spotlight stand out is the way director Tom McCarthy develops his characters in different layers and skips all the easy ways of melodrama.
I didn't enjoy watching this, but I can definitely say it was made with good intentions. Taking such a troubling subject matter is difficult enough, but the cast performed well considering that. I don't understand how this won best picture, but I'll give it credit for being a well made film.
Filme nos faz abrir os olhos para uma problema de proporções muito maiores do que imaginamos: a pedofilia cometida por padres e o acobertamento da Igreja Católica.
?????? ?? ??? ?????? ??????? ?????? ????? ????? ??? ?????. ????? ?? ??????? ?? ?? ??????? ?????? ??????? ?????? ?????. ?????? ???? ?????? ???????? ??? ??????? ???? ???? ???????? ??????? ??????.???? ???? ??? ??? ?? ??????? ???? ?? ??? ?????? ?? ?????? ??? ????? ??????? ???????? ????? ??????? ?? ?? ????? ???? ?? ??????? ??? ??????? ?? ????? ?? ???? ?????? ???????? ???. ????? ?? ??? ???? ?? ??????? ?????? ??? ?? ????? ????? ??? ??????? ????? ???? ???????. ???? ?? ????.
Excellent film even though it was hard to watch at times due to subject matter. Well acted from everyone, this should get alot of nominations come Oscar time.
Terrific movie.  Best of the year, in my opinion.
Spotlight is a great movie. It is powerful and thought provoking.
A sensational thriller about a very controversial subject.Great ensemble of actors, terrific plot, specially because it is a true story, An important piece of journalism, not to be missed...
Pretty sure there is nothing wrong with this film. Ruffalo pulls a performance that's even better than his in Foxcatcher. The rest of the cast is outstanding. And the story is engrossing. Best film of the year.
Who dares wins. Best movie of 2015.
Great writing and performances - gripping from start to finish.
this is a great movie with a powerful story and an outstanding cast!
it is based on a true story so that does it most thrilling by it self.... it is hard to make a movie about this "theme" but Tom mccarthy have directed it very strongly, and with the help of everybody of the actors makes this movie a very worth watching.
Very good, moves along nicely, well worth a watch.
With impressive cast and solid direction, this riveting drama becomes both a great journalistic document and a fantastic movie experience.
The best aspect of this movie despite some outstanding acting, is the pace. It starts slow and picks up a beautifully edited increasing pace that keeps the viewers engaged. I loved the slight humour in an otherwise serious drama.
The filming is simple and honest. It connected me to movie and made me feel for the characters. Everyone was relatable. No over-the-top or 'fictionized' aspects in anyone. In fact, it almost felt like a documentary. A movie for the ages, do not miss this one.
Journalist team do an outstanding work uncovering how the system hid wrongdoings of the Catholic Church.
Scary that this is a true story.
Liked it a lot. Liev was great. Moved a bit slow but still a good movie
Methodical, precise and to the point. Just like the investigative journalism it portrays. The Hulk, Batman and Sabretooth et al are working together to uncover disgusting story of sexual abuse in the Catholic church. The way they do it reminds us why we need good, tough journalists, the ones who are absolutely devoted to serving the general public even if that requires severe personal sacrifices. It's genuinely fascinating to see how a ground-breaking news story comes together.
Moving, a burst of realism.
Hulk and Batman join forces to destroy the evil catholic church.
SPOTLIGHT is an undeniably powerful film, one whose subject matter is absolutely infuriating and disheartening, though if I'm being honest, it kind of coasts on that, and on the strength of the acting on display.  The filmmaking is very solid and workmanlike, but nowhere near the kind of bravura effort some in the critical community have argued it is; to me, it feels like an HBO movie, and you can take that any way you want.  Now, one could certainly make the case that to turn this story into some kind of flashy cinematic showcase would have been absolutely tone-deaf, and on a certain level I agree.  Yet, I still think the movie as a whole is a bit too restrained, a bit too low-key; I was captivated by the material, not so much by the cinema of it all.  The strongest element of the movie (unquestionably, in my mind) is the screenplay, which handles an insane amount of information, dates, names, and locations with apparent total ease, and it presents this information in ways that do not allow the facts to become jumbled up in the minds of the audience.  Just below the screenplay in importance are the cast members, each of whom do exemplary work, to a person being grounded and real.  Some might jump to Keaton or Ruffalo as the standouts, but Schreiber could be the movie's quiet MVP.  It's hard not to bring your own baggage to this story, and as a Catholic, it brought back all those things I felt when the actual story broke; the film is a powerful reminder... and also one I have no great desire to revisit.
Disturbing but unfortunately all too common true story about the tragedy of the Catholic church's coverup and reshuffling of molesting priests that continue their destruction elsewhere that goes all the way to the Vatican. This should be shocking but sadly we're all too used to it by now. Promise people they'll live forever and they will excuse anything. It drives home the adage: Good people do good, bad people do bad, but for a good person to do bad it takes religion. Although it is a wonderful film, it did not deserve Best Picture (there were several better IMO).
explosive and riveting journalism...top acting across the board!
Fantastic re-telling of a terrible true story, although the film probably didn't give due respect to the plaintiffs' attorneys who worked for decades (and, for that matter, continue to work) to expose the same issues. But, it's a great film, the likes of which we need more of, more often.
Spotlight is fan-freakin-tastic ! The direction and the brilliant star cast makes up a great team to present this true story to the somewhat ignorant world ;when it comes to religion and society.  It is an unimaginable tale of horror and showcases what true investigative journalism can do. Must watch movie of 2015.
This movie is a carefully crafted masterwork. Go see it if you can.
Spotlight is definitely one of the best films this year has to offer. It is directed with class, and features great performances from the main ensemble especially Mark Ruffalo who is astoundingly brilliant. Overall, Spotlight is a film that everyone should watch, and its impact is quite resonant.
When you are able to get over the fact that Spotlight has an impeccable cast and tells a nail-biting story, you realize it is based in fact and it becomes that much more brilliant.
This  is   a brilliant movie, that is  both very  sad  and  shocking.  We've all been  hoodwinked.
I've seen a lot of movies over the past year and this one, so far, is easily the best. Great pace, outstanding cast, great performances especially from Ruffalo. Excellent movie all round.
A superb drama film that deals honestly the pedophilia scandals in a compelling way, with a great assembled cast.
Spotlight is the prime example of the journalism field, and thanks to its strong script and top-notch cast, it'll keep audience's attention towards the film's tough and disturbing subject matter.

A-
a instant classic of its genera and of any movie! Script is insane!
Journalism in films is a great subject because the movies explore the process of a investigation, the main characters, ethics and also the power of the system. So many movies have done great work: Michael Man's "The Insider", Alan Pakula's "All the President's Men", George Clooney "Good Night and Good Luck" Ron Howards' "Frost/Nixon" James L Brooks "Broadcast News", Roland Joffé "The Killing Fields are among those films.

In Spotlight directed by Tom McCarthy journalist is questioned on his core. In 2001 The Boston Globe hires a new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) with the promise of searching for better stories and more solid journalism work. Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton) is the head of "Spotlight" team a group of journalist of the Globe whose articles are investigative nature, but can take up to a year to publish. The film start with an incident of a priest who is be taking a police precinct in Boston for allegedly molesting a kid from the parish in the 70's the case seems to go under the table when the archdioceses gets involved to solve the problem. Tom McCarthy set the foundation of the story by proving that this is lawless crimes that can be hide so easily in front of the police. Back to 2001 Baron reads a small article that talks about a pedophile priest John Geoghan and how the archbishop of Boston knew about it and  did nothing to stop it. The spotlight team is been asked to start an investigation about the peophile cases in the church of Boston.

The spotlight team start to work Michael Resends (Mark Ruffalo) Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James) with a lot of skepticism but quickly revealing shocking information about the victims, their abusers, and how the elite was forced to hide the truth to keep an image of a perfect clerical society in Boston. 

The film is powerful with strong performances by all the cast, Thomas Newman deliver a compelling original score, Tom McArdle gives the film the perfect pace on a outstanding editing.

Spotlight is not about journalist who becomes heroes, is about the power of ethics and the search for the truth, it's also about mistakes made and when you search for that truth you have to risk so many things in your life.
I'm Catholic and loving this.
Excellent script, excellent acting, well paced, a wonderful movie experience
Didn't go pee at all in this movie, was hooked from the beginning!
Een confronterende journalisten verhaal dat dankzij zijn sterke cast en controversiële onderwerp voornamelijk intrigeert door de directe dialogen. Het is het type onderzoeksdrama dat we niet goed gedaan zien worden sinds de jaren 70.
Spotlight > Mad Max
Arguably the best movie of 2015.  Well acted, well directed, and well told. But I have to give props to the editing.  They were able to take a dense topic, presented in what could be a chaotic journalist setting and made it into an edge-of-your-seat, engaging, moving and thought-provoking movie. A complete package of movie making collaboration at its best.  Definitely my pick for the 2015 Oscars.
A movie that is much about journalism as it is about scandal, morality, and cover ups. Everyone did a good job here, but I felt something was missing, preventing it from being great.
Great movie about shockingly true events. Brilliant acting.
Really, really good watch. Liev Schreiber and Ruffalo stand out but the whole cast is superb.
The journalistic expose genre is one with many greats, and Spotlight certainly belongs in their company.  Its a thoroughly engrossing and affecting film, and one that may indeed be considered important.
I have mixed feelings about movies like this. I thought this was well written and acted. I really enjoy Micheal Keaton in all of his projects and he did not disappoint on this one either. I think this was released too late and the shock value of this material has faded unfortunately.
Spotlight is the one of the greatest movies I've ever seen!
Que la vean todos los fanaticos religiosos.
Fabulous film .. Subject matter very interesting. Had me looking it all up. So sad that the main man of this is still living under churches umbrella. Top movie.
Really good movie!! Knowing the truth hurts, so is pretty sad but def a must see!!
One of the most powerful newsroom drama's I've ever seen. Subtle and moving performances by all actors, from the leads thru the bit parts. The disturbing subject matter is expertly handled and the story  plays out like an engrossing mystery.
Left feeling inspired.  A story well told.
Very good acting. I think it would have been good to comment on the changes the church has put in place. Very painful to watch but needed to be shared.
great acting intense true story
Barely entertaining and never exhilarating like other reporter / lawyer movies. The cast is good but no one has "a moment" and neither does the movie.. Unfortunately, just like Brokeback Mountain, it is the subject matter here the appeals to many critics and certain viewers. Remove the controversy and you will have ,at best , an average movie
By far one of the best films I have seen in the last 10 years...every member of the cast is outstanding and the story is addressed without any extra sensationalism then it already commands. #noReligion
Phenomenal. This movie brings out so much, and it's very interesting as the movie progresses.
Outstanding all the way around. Mark Ruffalo has always left me underwhelmed to say the least - but he OWNS this movie. Best performance I've seen from anyone in a very long time.
This is one of the best two movies of 2015. It's a little weird to give a movie 5 stars when it made me feel that I wanted to throw up. The true story about the petophiles in the Boston diocese & disclosed by the Boston Globe was very well written and with several great performances. I didn't really learn anything new, but they did a great job of packaging the story & reminding me how disgusting the priests & the church's cover up & complicity in these horrific crimes. Clearly the totally corrupt RC Church was more interested in protecting thier money & power rather than protecting their children. That's right, God's children. Sadly, the corruption continues as evidenced right here in St Paul.
Another oddity, my other 5 star movie was The Big Short. A well done movie highlighting the outlandish corruption of the American financial & political system. 
They were both so well done it helped make up for being downers.
Great movie based on the findings of the molestation of boys and girls by Catholic priests in 2001 Boston. 
  Led by a stellar cast (Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo & Rachel McAdams) this film doesn't hold back on the details of its source material. Directed wonderfully & gracefully by Tom McCarthy, this film is definitely the front runner for best movie of the year at the 2016 Academy Awards.
  Also a film I can see being studied by filmmakers trying to make an investigative drama. In this day & age where true crime is so addicting & cheap, it's nice to see a true crime story that matter being unraveled by professional actors. Revealing a scandal to the whole world that needed to be known. 
  Be prepared to have this film be shown on a loop on cable tv stations (TNT,USA) for years & years to come.
Engrossing Movie. Really good explanation of the Boston Globe's work about the sexual  molestation of boys & girls by priests. The desire to protect the church by those who ran it and by parishioners enabled this practice to continue for decades. Lots of lessons for the church and everyone, but afraid the church minimizes Boston's Cardinal Law's huge role in this travesty - Law is now working in Rome at an important church.
Disturbing and important...
Finally, a movie that acknowledges true journalism. Spotlight declares that extensive research and wholehearted work on abstruse matters of contention is vital before broadcast. Nonetheless, it reeducates the mass about the heinous crime the Catholic Churches went above and beyond to protect their reputation via money settlements. The Spotlight staff's effort started out from investigating an unknown issue which brought to light a disturbing revolution to the public. This film will hopefully inspire journalists to report better coverage on the countless other hidden issues around the world. It will also inquire to those who are unaware of this unsettling true story and the cycle that remains to this day.
Francis still has work to do
Is it a good film? Yea. Is it movie of the year for me? No. It's characters are nothing special, but it really shows the investigative journalism needed for such a big story. It is almost like a modern day "All the Presidents Men". Cast was good, but again no role was over the top. If anything Tucci and Ruffalo were the best in the film. Is it a Top 10 film? Sure, but not the best of the year.
&h&ggghhhhhhhhgÄ£hhhhgÃ 3/4rree\\##\/##
Handles its subject matter with such delicacy, truth, and respect that it yields a damn good movie as a result, with performances that connect with human interaction.
Tense and unbelievably shocking. A true story.
Very interesting and disturbing movie... How did the Catholic Church keep this covered up for so long?!?
So whenever , we need a fresh breath of air , there is indeed a surprise for us.
Just like an honest journalism is need of every society , so is the need for an honest cinema and Spotlight proves it right . Right from an ensemble cast. to sensitively handling the subject , Tom McCarthy has done everything right . Rachel McAdams brings the required subtlety to the role and Mark Ruffalo and Keaton are awe inspiring as always , while balancing the act of being just journalists and not heroes  . Each emotion be it of prevelance or the choke of the victims has been taken care of finely and with all this the end product we have is one of the finest feature films of the year
Great and interesting story with great cast. Very good for informing about the event.
Great movie with disgusting subject matter.
???? ???? ???? ? ??? ???? ?? ??? ???? ??? ?? ??? ???? ??? ?? ????? ????. 2? 25? ?? ?? ???? ??? ?? ??.
Solid performances, wish the ending had more closer
Flawlessly executed. Expect awards nominations in every major category.
Perfectly cast from top to bottom. There are 20 superb performances . Will win best script
Spotlight is an absorbing story about investigative journalism and an exceptional ensemble piece that delivers the shocking facts of its subject without idolizing the men and women who exposed them.
Historien om, hvordan reporterne på Boston Globe fik afsløret, hvordan den katolske kirke i årtier havde dækket over pædofile præsters misbrug af børn. Lægger sig med et stjerneteam af skuespillere direkte i kølvandet på "All the President's Men", men når dog ikke helt dennes højder.
Today's 10-cent review:  Essentially a recruiting video for journalism, yet done spectacularly well. No unnecessary melodrama, no exploitation of the subject matter, just straight ahead honest to goodness stuff. Which was, fittingly, just like the real work was done. Yes, as a journalist I take pride in seeing these things. But how often is it done this well? ... Beyond that there is the sheer nauseating reaction to seeing what took place, not just in Boston, of course, but all over the world. Though The Globe was the first to so dramatically link the scandal way up the Catholic Church food chain. Also, Boston being so overwhelmingly Catholic, and really such a "small town" for such a big city - the movie did a good job conveying the dynamics of Boston which makes the situation there a bit unique. ... I also, however, despite loathing the Catholic Church as an institution, understand the allure the wanting to believe something and be part of something, and so the disillusionment felt by everyone involved was very touching as well.
An excellent and fair treatment of the Catholic Church Sex Abuse scandal focusing on the investigative reporters who broke the story. It has some moments that as a Catholic who loves his church, but is so upset that the institution could have let this happen and in fact perpetuate it for decades, can relate to.
Powerful and beautifully done.
appalling, reverting and unimaginable for being a true story, but it's one that's told very gracefully. powerful performances.
Very very well made and important story
What a boring boring, boring, boring movie. Quick synopsis and I'll save ya 7.50 and 2 hours.

Scene 1: Overpaid actors sit in office talking about 13 potential pedophiles
1 Hr Later...
Scene 2: There's 40 pedophiles.
2 Hours Later....
Scene 3: They're all pedophiles. Fin.
The Boston Globe going HAM on the Catholic Church.
This movie is absolutely splendid.  It is a very well told story by actors that did a great job telling the story. Go see it. You'll enjoy this movie--go see it.
Con actuaciones brillantes, y un guión increíble, Spotlight es fantástica; sin excluir su excelente trabajo en la propuesta visual y el cuidado en el sonido.
I always wanted to work in journalism so films that specialises in this field always interest me.  A great cast and an engaging and sadly true subject matter keep you engrossed right until the end and its shocking conclusion.
Solidly made movie that you've already seen a dozen times. This movie doesn't do anything that you haven seen in any other journalism movie. 1) uncover story 2) do journalist stuff 3) overcome the power structure with truth 4) pat yourself on the back.
Watch this movie. NOW.
A la ALL THE PRESIDENTS MEN, it's an incredibly engaging just-the-facts story.  Grade: A
A must see film, the people and the hard work of uncovering this huge story not so long ago. With so many great films this year, this one is at the top for me.
Great story. Great acting. Great takedown.
Excellent film, thankfully focuses more on the journalism than the icky subject itself
Great movie. Good newspaper procedural.
Great ensemble cast. Well paced and totally absorbing from start to finish. Recommend seeing it.
A very suspenseful telling of the Boston Globe's investigation of the Catholic Church dealing with Pedophile Priests.  Well written, well cast and wonderfully acted.
I'm a little surprised this hasn't received more attention. A very well made ensemble... I enjoyed this Keaton far more than Birdman's, which I still feel is wildly overrated.
Great story telling about the hidden stories of the church.
Saw reviews comparing to Citizen Kane and All the Presidents Men, it may be even better and more important.  See it before you go to church again.
Best Movie of 2015 by a mile!
it was about time they make this movie
If God can not teach the Church honesty, maybe a newspaper can.
An absolutely fascinating look at the inner workings of top-class investigative journalism.  Outside of the New York Times (and a few other publications), this kind of journalism probably doesn't exist anymore following the advent of the internet.  But it's still amazing to see how a tenacious group of people can work doggedly against all odds at uncovering the truth about a scandal for months on end.  The acting is amazing - with Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton delivering particularly impressive performances.
"The Best of the Year", huh, for real??!!!
I found  21 years ago was way much better.
A very well made and acted film based on true events. The film seems to have a good balance of honoring the characters it portrays and the events as they happened. But haven't we seen this movie before? I've seen at least 3 or 4 just like it, and it racks up with them in quality.... But I feel it was not original enough in the way it was presented except for the content.
"Spotlight" Cast a Shadow on the Catholic Church

With an all-star cast and a compelling story, "Spotlight" delivers a blandly straightforward telling of the priest sex-abuse scandal and cover-up through the investigative story featured in the Boston Globe in the early 2000s. The city of Boston was torn apart by the scandal that had lasted for decades, and according the film, many people worked to shield the Church from the consequences of the scandal. Without the cover-up, the scandal would not have lasted so long. 

However well done and easy to follow the story was, it was predictable. Few revelations were made for me. Certainly, it is an important story to tell, and I am glad I saw the film. However, none of the characters lived up to the power of story itself and the actors adding little to its telling. This may be the case of too much story, too little screen time. The film attempted in a couple of cases to make the suffering of the survivors real, but it played like an episode of "Law and Order: Special Victims Unit" and not like a feature film. It was too small for such a lofty topic. 

In the film, they often mentioned that people died, but it seemed unreal. Examples of that were need to bring it home. The film covered too much time without making the connections for the audience. I really want to like this film more, but it fails as cinema in too many ways. It would have made a better Lifetime Channel Drama as it was written. ??Rating: Matinee

"Spotlight" is good but not great. After a while, Mark Ruffalo's (playing lead reporter Mike Rezendez) pained expression wears thin. Does he have any other look? Not much in this film. Stanley Tucci puts in a good turn as a lawyer working with the survivors, but the rest of the cast is pedestrian. Perhaps it was the writing, but the film and characters didn't greatly impact me despite the best intentions of the filmmakers and the tragedy of the true story. 

Peace,
Tex Shelters
Very disturbing but excellently handled and superb acting.
Great movie! Very well acted and directed, and an interesting topic.
Thrilling but also sad and disturbing. Great performances.
A remarkable true story told in a perfectly unremarkable way. Spotlight probes into the Boston Globe's exposÃ (C) of abuse in the Catholic Church with razor-sharp dialogue and a compelling team of characters behind the news desk, but everything else feels unfortunately phoned-in. The story is predictable, Tom McCarthy's direction is dry and pedestrian (after the tenth dramatic dolly in, I couldn't help but roll my eyes), and its finger-wagging to the audience is so on the nose I felt like I was being punched in the face. And to be frank, the supporting cast is so stuffed full of old, white men I had to keep a list of who was who.

Despite my list of gripes, Spotlight is perfectly entertaining even if it is a shameless piece of Oscar bait.
Just the right balance of heart, facts, and truth. Great acting, appropriately low frills sets.
Brilliant true story. Great cast.
the power of this movie is that you are taken along the same ride the real journalist took as they realized the extent of the Catholic Church cover up (shameful at best)
certainly entertaining enough. a good story. but i realy didnt have any emotional investment in the film. 

i understand that it had to focus on the investigation. that it was an ode to investigative journalism... that the story was really to big and it had to focus on the journalists and not and part of the story that could have easily been emotional. or could have had more of an emotional story arc. 

none of the performances were that great as none of them really had too much to do. noe one has anything challenging. liev schreiber was the only one of note. i though mark ruffalo had a couple very odd moments. 

its a whats for dinner movie.
Potential best picture for the Academy Awards!
Riveting !
Better than All the Presidents Men!!
Anyone who was raised Catholic and anyone who was raised in any religion at all would benefit from seeing this movie and all that can happen when blind faith is the ruling doctrine.
The best film I have seen this year, it has stellar acting, Direction and Writing. Keaton, Rufalo, McAdams and James shine together and individually as the Boston Globe's top Investigative team and while the subject matter is lurid McCarthy handles it with sensitivity. Also good are Slattery, Cariou, Sheridan and Schreiber! It holds your interest and even causes edge of your seat excitement. A true don't miss film! 12-30-2015
The movie has a real life performance on screen.The Best picture of 2015. The definite winner of Oscars 2016 for Best Picture.
A solid enough movie, well done, but definitely over hyped.
Academy Award for Best Picture for sure.
Absolutely incredible. Real actors portraying real life situations in realistic way and it calmly lets the plot unravel without needing to overdramatize anything. Recommended for sure.
I saw Spotlight at the CMC Rolling Hills 20 on November 26th.  Although I was familiar with the many child abuse cases against Catholic priests worldwide  I didn't really understand its scope but Spotlight did a great job explaining it and the huge Catholic Church coverup.  I recommend this movie!
Overrated for an old news...
Very well made and written.
crazy story man, can't wait to see what the church says in response to the article! (movie ends abruptly, go to bed and forget to google it the next day, the end)
'A igreja é uma instituição feita pelos homens, é momentânea, minha fé é no eterno e sei separar bem.'

O filme é um poderoso e corajoso drama, que expõe os crimes de pedofilia na igreja católica, crimes 'apadrinhados' por importantes cardeais. É um filme importante pela 'denuncia'
É pra arrepiar, quando aparece o nome das cidades brasileiras. Em especial, Mariana, a cidade onde ocorreu uma tragédia recente.
Very good movie showing how the Priest rape cover-up was unearthed by the Boston Globe. Unfortunately, Mark Ruffalo's method acting was extremely distracting (read: annoying), and I really wished they would have developed Liev Schreiber's character more. Regardless, a satisfying albeit horrifying look at one of the many despicable atrocities committed by The Church.
Such a good movie. Sad and sickening that they would allow this to just go on.
Incredible. Gut wrenching story, but love truth being brought to light.
The true story behind the film dwarfs it both in the moment and after - when its greatest impact is felt through a series of pointed, factual inserts about what the team's work ultimately laid bare. Ruffalo does memorable, if mannered, work, and the film is brisk and intellectually engaging. It's not, as some purport, a stellar achievement in film; but, rather, a serviceable, workmanlike documenting of a stellar achievement in journalism.
Was upon viewing, and may still be at the end of this great movie year, my favorite -- an old-fashioned kind of telling of an old-fashioned industry, newspapering, fueled by old-fashioned virtue, e.g., honor, honesty, truth. It's remarkable that a story centered upon almost unspeakable crimes -- the sexual abuse of thousands of young boys (and some girls too) by members of the Roman Catholic clergy -- is really a mystery story about finding the proof that will expose the monsters in the church hierarchy who knew about the crimes, covered them up, then lied about the coverup. Virtually everyone in the story in Catholic Boston knows each other and is steeped in the culture that made such venality possible for so long -- the priests, the church administration, its influential supporters, the cops, the prosecutors, and indeed, the leadership of the Boston Globe. Except for two outsiders, an Armenian-American defense attorney and a Jewish editor who pushed the investigative unit, known as Spotlight, to dig, and then dig harder, at immense personal  costs to the members of the team. Like the films of Frank Capra, Spotlight brings the story to a rousing finale -- you want to stand up and cheer, were it not for the horror that remains at the center of the story, to this day.
5 stars isn't enough for this movie!
April 10, 2016

Orchard hill

By myself
Spotlight's passionate but humble story is served exceptionally by its stellar cast, direction and writing, and the end result is a film that makes you want to drop everything and break the big new story.
The final 20 minutes of the film are a payoff, carefully constructed through the film, the only complain being the suspiction some twist is just put there for dramatic purpouses, devaluating the whole experience an inch. A great film anyways and everyone is really good, specially Liev Schreiber... I can see why it is the Oscar frontrunner, yet I don't think critics are judging only the film itself, but are also too influenced by the importance of the subject matter.
Utilitarian in approach, but ultimately satisfying in conclusion (they take on the Church and win for Christ's sake!), Spotlight boasts a solid cast, and a slow amping of tension as the insidious secrets of the powers-that-be in Boston are revealed. They were keeping it all to themselves to keep their so-called "good names" intact while the lives they claim to cherish and protect in God's name are ruined to save face. It's unraveled in a journalistic yarn that calls up "All The President's Men", but doesn't quite reaching those same heights.
A story that's worth telling. Spotlight is about the investigations behind accused priests who have allegedly molested young children. Its such a delicate and pretty disturbing subject to put on the screen but the movie executed it so well. I really enjoyed this film. Its star filled cast including Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton, Liev Schrieber, and Stanley Tucci, bring expeirence and add class to the film. Every individual gives a great performance and makes their character very believable. But Mark Ruffalo stands out the most. I felt his was more ecstatic and flowing. Another Oscar worthy performance from him. The direction in the film is great. Behind a strong screenplay, Tom McCarthy does a stellar job at creating a lively atmosphere about the world of journalism. It's compelling sorry really keeps you concerned with that matter at hand. My biggest issue with Spotlight although I wasn't completely bothered by it is the pace. I felt the film had a lot of incidents in which there were big scenes the movie slowed down. It couldn't keep a steady moving rate of intensity. Audiences will also have trouble keeping track of numerous names that is hard to follow.  Overall Spotlight was wonderful. It told the story so well that it made the movie very intriguing. This is definitely one of the best all around films of 2015. If you're looking for a movie that is well written, acted and has a meaningful story, watch Spotlight.
great coverage on a difficult subject
"How do you say no to God? This isn't just physical abuse; it's spiritual abuse." Surprisingly, the headline-grabbing Catholic Church sex scandal is not even the real focus of this powerhouse display of acting and directing. Yes, the abuses are horrendous, even when they are just being spoken and not shown. However, the true star of Spotlight is an intense and loving look at the nearly-lost art of the journalistic process. McCarthy directs with a refreshing lack of glamour or melodrama, leaving us with this question: if our "heroes" succeed here, who really wins?
An interesting, well acted and engaging film about seeking truth and justice.
Yet another astounding piece of cinema making its way to us just as the year comes to a close. Spotlight is the slow burning but riveting tale of the monolithic Boston Globe, based on a true story, when a small team within the paper, called Spotlight, are forced to drop their current investigation and their laid back attitude, in favor of a more audacious and high pressured investigation into molestation in the catholic church, they soon find that not only are their fears true, but uncover a plethora of cases and resistance from the church itself. Spotlight could easily be a David Fincher moment, brimming with brilliant character pieces, rooted in american style and oozing intrigue from the work go, and Tom McCarthy even borrows from Fincher's, Zodiac, in one or more shots. However McCarthy decides to fight back the darkness, somewhat, and leave us with a daunting but uplifting piece, that by the end will completely envelop you. Its a slow burning affair, with not a lot going on, subdued performances, with the exception of Ruffalo and nothing to flashy in the visual department, McCarthy is clearly letting the story and his script do all the heavy lifting and for the briefest of moments the film does feel a little lost to begin with. By the time the 2nd act comes around, not only have we lost ourselves in a weighty investigation, but there is a fare share of excellent drama and performance to go about. The cast are all terrific, everyone from Keaton, Schrieber, Crudup, McAdams, Tucci and Slattery all do some solid work, grounding the lifeblood of the Globe and making the piece feel extremely human and unlike an Oscar nomination, however its Mark Ruffalo's completely riveting and game changing performance that turns this cast and indeed film from a good time, into a great time. He just becomes a character, even with his, huge stature as the Hulk, Ruffalo is fearless and capable of completely bypassing any connection with his CGI counterpart, by just deeply rooting himself in good old fashioned performance, from mannerisms to accent, really lending a sense of realism to the whole affair. Its a great picture all around, and thats Spotlights biggest flaw, if you can call it that, it appears to play it safe. The film takes quite a bit of time to start leaving you a little more time than you want, to begin to pick apart the film itself, by the end you will really love the final product but will not be able to shake the feeling that McCarthy may have played this one, just a little too safe. Its understandable given the content but in this case the careful approach can be felt by the final frame. It's a solid effort, a film more subdued and down scaled than a lot of others on offer this year, strongly recommend.
An incredible and heart-wrenching movie about the horrible history of abuse and systemic cover up associated with the Catholic Church.
Spotlight is a very compelling movie, with an engaging plot and fascinating mystery thriller. It was great performances all around, but Mark Ruffalo especially stood out from the ensemble. The direction by Tom McCarthy was excellent, despite his previous directorial credits. This film explored very interesting themes of morality and ethics, and was also respectful of the religion of Christianity while pointing out issues in the institution of the church. However, the movie does drag at parts and could have been tightened up a bit...

Read the full review here: http://www.themovieparadise.com/2015/12/spotlight-spoiler-free-review.html
For anyone unfamiliar with the Catholic church child molestation scandals of the last 20 years this provides great insight into the issue and is at the same time a disturbing look at institutional cover-uppery at its worst!
Wow - the cover up of all cover ups... and the sad thing is, it's a true story.
Must see film.  Not only for the corruption of institutions, but the importance of a free press.  I followed this story actively in the NYT, but was still shocked at the depth of the problem and the church's coverup.  I rue not reading the original spotlight article when published.
Spotlight is a gripping drama of real-life people braving a storm in search of the truth. It's story is at times difficult to believe was based on facts, but with a captivating screenplay, a no-holds-barred approach to the harsh reality of said story and committed performances by all its players, you believe that you could watch a documentary or video-journal of the events as they took place. Set in in Boston in 2001 right before and going through 9/11, Spotlight's much discussed story is thus: for over 30 years, priests of the Catholic Church have been abusing children without law officials doing so much as letting people discuss it. Such a story in this day and age could sound like a punch-line for a joke, but at the time the story was breaking, it is easy to see how jarring this was to realize. In such a tight-knit community as in Boston, it would be easy for priests, the high and mighty disciples of God who the common folk look up to and strive to please, to cover something up like this. Something had to be done as demonstrated in the film. The performances are all of the charts and very well thought out. There isn't anyone to single out really because of how much of an ensemble piece the movie is, with all these distinguished and recognizable actors losing themselves in their roles, which is a testament to the commitment put into this project. A brilliantly conceived and executed film with an instant draw.
A rock-solid true story drama. Well-written and acted.
in theater with Boston sweatshirt sobbing.
VIEWS ON FILM review by Jesse Burleson

"I wanna keep digging" quips the character of Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), a well respected reporter at Beantown's most heralded newspaper. What can I say, I "dug" all 128 minutes of the vehicle I'm about to review.

Anyway, for all Academy Award purposes and historical insight, Spotlight is the quintessential best picture nominee. It's secure, by the book filmmaking and that doesn't hurt it in any way. 1976 had All the President's Men, 1981 had Absence of Malice, 2007 had Zodiac, and now 2015 brings us "Light". All these films have one thing in common. They are dialogue-driven, feed off paranoia, and resound in crowded newsrooms. "Nose goes" gets a nose for the news. Natch!

Taking place in the early 2000's and helmed by director Tom McCarthy, Spotlight moves along like a jack rabbit. Yeah this flick is talky but it never comes off as insipid. There are a lot of continuity cuts between scenes, ensemble acting (where everyone helps each other out) of the highest order, and crackling intrigue inhabiting every frame. Alongside his previous endeavor Birdman, "Light's" lead in Michael Keaton, is now two for two. His co-star (Mark Ruffalo) who got nominated for a supporting role via 2014's Foxcatcher, is also batting 1.000.

So yeah there might be a repetition in Spotlight involving every (news reporter) caricature interrogating a victim and/or a suspect. No matter. This Open Road Films release rings true because Josh Singer's screenplay is tight and engrossing. What we have amongst the muck, is the best movie of the year (so far). And just like one of my other top picks (2015's Black Mass), the city of Boston swallows the proceedings whole as if Michael Phelps decided to inhale tons of hot dogs. You want to see actual events depicted that involve a massive cover-up among the Roman Catholic priests? You'll get that in "Light". You want the 9/11 attacks to be used effectively as a backdrop? You'll get that as well. You wanna witness a small investigative team unravel the secrets behind so many young churchgoers getting molested? It's all there. And do you want to revel in having the Boston Globe be the locale where all the news shtick goes down? Prego. Finally, do you want a cast that includes Liev Schreiber, Stanley Tucci, Rachel McAdams, and Billy Crudup? Who wouldn't.

All in all, Spotlight involves behind-the-scenes preoccupation in small rooms and quiet, open spaces. Every nuance between the troupers sticks. With its disciplined magnetism and critical darling demur, "Light" shines brightly. Rating: 4 stars.
Spotlight is an excellent, provocative film that tells a true story in a compelling way. I can see a general audience finding its subject matter somewhat dry, but I was thrilled not only by the story the titular team attempts to uncover, but also by the process and part the media plays in bringing it into the public consciousness. We know now that the Catholic Church is irrevocably tarnished by this outrageous scandal, but Spotlight gives insight into the parties (intentional or otherwise) that buried it - and how they were able to do it for so long. 

My only complaint is that I wish more focus was given to the psychological defect underlying the normalized phenomenon of child abuse - something which I feel Doubt did very well. But the credence given to the experience of the survivors more than makes up for the lack of this angle.
I was apprehensive about seeing this, and now I cannot wait to see it again. It was an incredible story which conveyed the severity of what happened and what has been going on. I highly recommend this movie.
Though the subject of this movie is terribly depressing, it was really great. Each actor did so, so well.
This was an excellent movie. I loved how they did it with an all star cast together and put it into a great biopic movie like this. Loved Spotlight as an Oscar contender for the 2016 Oscars!
Spotlight is outstanding in terms of acting, Keaton and Ruffalo are impeccable, but not just them, all the cast including extras. And also is great in terms of writing.
It shows you in a very realistic way the journalistic process, and thats could cut both ways, if you are curious about that process, or about the subjects treated in the film, you would enjoy it; but if you are not, then you would notice that the pace is not right for a movie, and probably you are going to get bored. But there's something that must be clear, it's a true story and they are not always exciting and fast-paced.
Anyway is a great film, with a complicated subject but centered in the journalists and the work they do (and not in criticizing the church).

Spotlight es excepcional tanto en escritura como en actuaciones, Keaton y Ruffalo son impecables, pero no sólo ellos, todo el elenco incluyendo los extras. 
Muestra de una manera muy realista el proceso periodístico, y eso termina siendo un arma de doble filo, si eres curioso acerca de dicho proceso o si te interesan los temas tratados, te va a gustar esta película; pero si no es así, entonces te daras cuenta de que el ritmo no es el adecuado para una película y, probablemente, te vas a terminar aburriendo. Pero hay algo que debe quedar claro, es una historia real y no siempre son emocionantes y de ritmo rápido.

De todos modos es una gran película, con un tema complicado pero centrado en los periodistas y el trabajo que hacen (y no en atacar a la iglesia).
One of the top 10 films of the year
Compelling, almost thriller-esque, watching the unfurling of the Boston scandal. Well acted with mostly skillfully controlled performances, and the deftly realized shared culpability.
Spotlight is a interesting look and love letter to investigative journalism. It follows a team at the Boston Globe in 2001 who starts to look into the sexual abuse cases in the catholic church.  The cast is great and everyone does a great job. Because this is an ensemble cast with no real lead I can see many supporting acting nods coming to this movie come oscar time. My particular favorite was Mark Ruffalo who really gives it his all. It has a few slow moments but I never really got bored and this felt like a very realistic take on what was going on at the Boston Globe in 2001. Definitely worth a watch at least once!
It is a fully absorbing drama with a strong cast, and it deals with its subject matter maybe a bit too delicately; It has bite, but maybe not quite enough. As far as the movie's portrayal of what its protagonists needed to go through to achieve their goals, that's where it shines.
Amazing. Amazing. Amazing.
Really good movie. Great acting.
An outstanding cast including my boyfriend Mark Ruffalo. A tragic story that was fascinating to watch.
As good a movie about the dying art of investigative journalism as All the President's Men!
The Hulk and Batman team up with an all star cast to take on a story that still gets no where near enough media attention. the story was only overshadowed By 9/11. 
the movie itself is well made and passed. but the story of true events, will chill you to the bone.
One powerful film. Ruffalo, Keaton and In particular Tucci are outstanding. If it wasn't a true story you would think that it was far fetched. The end credits are completely shocking.
I typically get in danger of falling asleep during a movie like this, but Spotlight really kept my attention throughout. Terrific acting.
An excellent movie of the systemic cover up by the Catholic Church in Boston  to protect their image, power and their pedophile priests. A must see!
The best movie about investigative journalism since All the President's Men.
Engaging, interesting, journalist perspective on the subject matter. Good performances.
Riveting, with a talented cast. It's like Newsroom but compact and based on a true story. Definitely recommend a watch or two.
This is a very good movie, with an amazing cast and story... I like this kind of movies, about journalism as a profession how they go and discover, unravel the truth and inform the public no matter what... for Spotlight they deliver that as they go against Church, I though there would be more from the other side, trying to bury or at least fight it but we end with the release of the story and that's enough!!! 
All the cast did an amazing job, that made the whole thing feel real... Mark Rufflalo performance was great, he had couple of stellar dialogues, I would like Ray Donovan/Liev Schreiber  to have a bigger role in here but :/ he did great, but it would have been amazing to see him deal with this in other manners than putting a bullet through one of them and bury him in the ground :p 
Now waiting for the other newspaper story with Christian Bale in The Big Short :) 
I'll give it an 8.5-9/10
surprise film of the year for me
Extremely good movie. Hard content. Not often does a movie leave me wanting more but this does. Amazing acting. Great shots. Perfect script. Messed up story. I'm sorry it ever had to be made.
Well done...... Everyone should see this
An excellent telling of an important story.  Good performances all around.  Deserved its Oscars.
Really good! So good you will be REALLY angry at the Catholic Church afterwards.
A taut drama which evokes the very best of investigative journalism and stylized storytelling. This is an important movie, one that exposes how institutional power intimidates and imposes its will- until someone stands in defiance. It's yet another of the trademark social commentary films produced by the velvet glove of Jeff Skoll's Participant Media ("Bridge of Spies", "Charlie Wilson's War", "Cutizen Four", "good night. and good luck", "The Help", "An Inconvenient Truth" and "Syriana" amongst 70 films.)
A prestige picture of the first order, Spotlight concerns the real life story of a team of investigative journalists from The Boston Globe and their efforts to uncover the cataclysmic sexual abuse scandal in the Catholic Church.  Spotlight is primarily a character study and uses its runtime to showcase the talents of its ensemble cast.  Of particular note, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, and Mark Ruffalo present relatable human characters whose motivations and backstories are unraveled in parallel with the abuse scandal.  The central theme is the power of intrepid, probing journalism in the face of overwhelming opposition, so in a sense it bears much in common with All the President's Men.  The heavy subject matter may shock some, but the presentation is quite objective and tasteful.  It does suffer from some overly indulgent and pretentious moments, but solid dramas can be forgiven for those.  I personally did not find it to be the year's best film, but I suspect it will be widely credited as such.
Brilliantly acted and honestly told, Spotlight walks the fine line between rich, entertaining drama, and solid, realistic fact telling.  A must watch for all.
Spotlight tastefully handles the sordid details of a sensitive subject; priests sexually abusing children and how the Catholic church engineered a complicated and complete cover up for decades.  Everyone knew this was going on but not to the extent that was finally discovered.  It is fact based and very well acted.  Don't miss this one even if you dislike the subject.  The good guys win!
The screenplay and acting are a perfectly intriguing combo that leaves you in tune throughout the entire film. A troubling true story brought to life on screen. Well executed and best picture worthy indeed.
It's a slow movie, but the subject and the stelar performances keep you interested until the very end. It's nice to finally watch a movie that relies heavily on real facts without having to resort to violence or special effects in order to make its story interesting. 4.3/5 stars
A must see film about the Catholic Church and its attempt to cover up thousands upon thousands of sexual abuse cases.  The movie is well acted with a good pace and to the point.  It's up there with other critically acclaimed news room dramas.
Fantastic movie.  Well written.  Looks and reminds me of "All The President's Men".  It's unbelievable to me that the Catholic Church covered this up and still does to this day.  Shameful.  But this story helps bring it to light.
A great script, a balanced hand in the director's chair, a note perfect ensemble cast, and and overall sense of quiet reserve and respect for the subject matter delivers intelligent cinema.
A movie that has to be watched ! One of 2015 best movies !
Excellent film and amazing performances all around, especially by Keaton and Ruffalo
Spotlight is like no other movie. The story hits you in the gut with gripping writing, directing, and acting. It's this year's oscar front runner.
Well done, excellent movie.
Very formulaic and predicable but the story had no problem being driven.  Rufalo shined.  Don't expect to be blown away or surprised at all but still a good watch.  Only major complaint was how the story's 'resolution' was summed up in writing right before the credits.  They could have utilized the last 10 minutes of the movie more to bring the conflict to a head
Best movie I've seen this year.  While Concussion goes soft on the NFL, Spotlight goes hard after the Catholic Church.  And frankly they deserve it.
Spotlight is the kind of movie, that doesn't end after the credits rolled. No, after that, you start digging. Does the story in the movie stay true to the real life events? Is there more to this story? What other stories were written by the Spotlight Team? 
If a movie gets you interested like this, then you know you watched something of quality and even importance. The premise itself is simple. The Boston Globes "Spotlight" team gets the assignment to invistigate a story, that builds up as they are making more and more progress and ultimately blows off the lid of an unprecedented scandal. 
Just like "All The Presidents Men" about the infamous Watergate Affair, "Spotlight" grips you with the perfect combination of writing and acting. The technical aspects of the movie, like directing, editing and cinematography are all really good, but it all stands on the shoulders of the performances and the script.
Spotlight starts pretty slow and it took me about thirty minutes to get into it, but once they are on the story, it never once loosened its grip on me. It actually tightened its grip throughout the rest of the movie until the very end.
The whole cast starting from Michael Keaton to Liev Schreiber is phenomenal, but Mark Ruffalo manages to stand out a bit with a fantastic performance. He may be The Incredible Hulk, but for me he always shines in smaller movies like "Begin Again" or "The Kids Are Alright". There is a scene during the last act with him that  should create some oscar buzz.
As great as this movie is, it is definitely not for everyone. It is purely dialogue and performance driven and you really need to pay attention, otherwise you might get lost amidst the waves of different names and new details.
If you are up for it, then you will get a fascinating lesson on investigative journalism and on how important it is to break the silence, when the voices need to be heard.
Really, really good movie.  Reminds of films from 20 years ago with great acting and story.  Saw it in sold out theater and everybody applauded when over. Tough subject matter, especially if you are catholic or know somebody who has been sexually abused.
Smart, slick, and simple, a throughly written script and heartfelt acting across the board are what really shine here in Spotlight. It's an invigorating story that doesn't focus on the crimes themselves, but the emotional toil on the victims, and the journalist who sought to expose the Church. Spotlight perfectly nails the terrifying depth of knowledge that the Church had on these crimes and the lengths they went to in hiding them. The film moves with the emotional angst that fuels the characters, and never do you feel as if you can catch your breath, even as the closing credits begin to scroll.
Excellent from start to finish
I thought it met expectations, & worthy of the buzz surrounding it.
Spotlight is one of the year's best and probably also one of the all time best newspaper films. It takes the world of journalism and investigation process into something that we think we've heard and seen before but put it instead into the time where some things are meant to be expose and told by paper. I love the stellar casts here that all deliver standard great performances that never stops or shows any flaws at it. I believe that the subject of the film still concerns to this world today, not just here in the US, but also around the world, as told at the end credits. The movie also didn't try to be more or less controversial about the entire priesthood and brotherhood that most films I think would treat them as criminals or monsters. These pedophiles as you say, are also once a victim of also another priests/brothers of the church. In some of the most tense and very informative scenes in any mystery film, the characters center each every detail and possibilities of this crime, may or it may not be against the law but it could even destroy the Catholic Church beliefs and Faith's to the people. It also tells us what is wrong about going deeper to the story and the effect of it if it will publish to the public. Again, great performances, great piece by piece detail by detail procedural investigation, and overall a true film of the year.
Michael Keaton is back again 
Really great acting in this 
All about the Boston globe and how they investigated the Catholic Church and all the abuse the priest did ,a must watch
Very good movie, one of the best movies this year.
Shark liked: Mark Ruffalo being method, the guy who lived next to the pedo-rehab center's vigilanteism , the building of a weird sense of empathy for that one perpetrator. Disliked: Rachel McAdams' wide-legged 90s pant collection. 

Duck liked: Rachel McAdams (see Shark's fascination with the Gosling), newspaper business and the community it creates, being able to dislike the bad guys without remorse, appreciating the nuance of each character - down to the spaz that Ruffalo plays. Also, Boston does okay. Dislike: A couple threads that were left unexplained (Portuguese? East Boston?), no resolution on what happens with the paper and people.
The movie does a remarkable job of conveying the lengths to which the Catholic Church went to cover up the misdeeds of its priests without sensationalizing the reporters themselves that broke the story. Everyone present turns in a solid performance. Important, terrific film.
Really enjoyed it.  Good story line and well put together movie.
Absolutely jaw dropping. I never grasped how huge this story was until I watched this movie. So well acted by everyone in this ensemble cast, too.
Excellent example of ensemble acting!!!

I think it's only a matter of time before Mark Ruffalo wins an Oscar. His body of work as of late speaks for itself.

Really exceptional screen writing and shout out to the dialect coach for getting the various Boston/New England accents authentic!
This is such an important movie about corruption.  I have my own insights on the subject matter of this film; it is important to see systemic corruption in action.  I can hardly believe that we can damage others and be so ready to protect those who do the damage.
Spotlight is so well made and acted it's quite boring. 7.3/10
Merita l'Oscar solo per il coraggio, un vero macigno.
Spotlight is one of the best investigative journalism films ever made. 

From the word go to the stunning facts shown at the end credits, Spotlight never loses pace, grittiness or it's ruthless approach. There's not a single dull moment anywhere whatsoever. Sticking to it's guns and based on cold hard facts, it re-enacts the sheer professionalism Boston Globe guys showed during their gruesome discovery and does so with impeccable grace and every emotion shown in the screen hits home with absolute precision. 

But all of these looked so spontaneous, seamless. Well, having Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton. Rachel McAdams. Liev Schreiber, John Slattery and Stanley Tucci in their ranks really helped the cause. Especially Mark Ruffalo. Steals the show time and time again.

Tom McCarthy's direction seemed lucid and vivid. In a film where you are working with facts and dialogues, you probably should never let the pace down or let the grip loosen even when it is so easy to do just that(Fincher's Zodiac, arguably, is a good example of a dialogue based, fact ridden film going slow, take it easy, yet making an positive impact. But that's probably always not the case.). Tom McCarthy recognized this and took the high road.

With two Golden Globe nominations, Spotlight surely will have more accolades in it's way. And it deserves every one of them.
This movie disturbed me a lot and I commend it for that. It was awesome watching Hulk, Sabertooth, and Batman being normal here.
It could have been molded to be a tighter, better paced film that would have been considered one of the year's best films. Instead, it's just a fairly good film about the shocking sex abuse and cover up from the Catholic church.
My underdog prediction for Best Picture Oscar 2016.
This movie works as a good mystery or thriller even though the outcome is known. The top notch performances and taut script keeps it moving along at a steady pace. Overall it left me feeling angry (because very little has changed) and nostalgic. Nostalgic - for back in the day when newspapers really mattered (because it wasn't about personalities looking to become media darlings, or to get a headlining tv show or write a book. It was about a team doing the work and telling important stories). Nostalgic - for back when movies made you feel something, and it wasn't about cute one liners or special effects. Nostalgic - for a time we may never see again when we thought our great institutions cared not just about us but especially about our children. Now we know it's about maintaining the status quo at all cost not and perpetuating their power. Nostalgic - for my youth when dressing up and going to church was important and uplifting (and yes, we thought priests were gods as someone in the movie says) - but alas, not even a rock star pope will bring me back to the Catholic Church.
A movie like this shouldn't be as interesting as it was, but with a neat flawless cast and pulse pounding mystery throughout, Spotlight is one of the years best films by a mile and a half.

Full review at: thegunnrange.com
Now this is a film. Everything about it is spot on, from the writing, directing and acting. It takes an important story and turns it into a strong, compelling film. Highly recommended.
Tense and unnerving, Spotlight tells the tale of the investigative reporters as they unearth the the terrible pattern of child molestation in the Catholic church. The acting is top notch, with Michael Keaton (showing his age without makeup) and Mark Ruffalo shining. While the movie has very few fast moving "action" scenes but the story is engaging and the characters keep us interested.
A powerful cast, tackling a difficult topic, served up in a very modern "All The President's Men" kind of way. An infuriating story which only digs deeper and deeper, and even then, the surface barely seems scratched. "Spotlight" returns writer/director McCarthy back to form in this fact-based story that pushes the envelope on religion, faith, and trust. The awards buzz is worthy with this one. Reviewed 12/23/15. Rated 4.25 out of 5.
They miscast Cardinal Law as a jovial sort of man - he wasn't that nice.  He should have been cast as a much more sinister character.
Spotlight promises more than it delivers, but what it does deliver is a shocking story with engrossing suspension and a performance in which Mark Ruffalo deserves the (ahem) spotlight.
Such a great movie and to see how everyone was hiding the truth about the priests sexually abusing kids really shocked me just to cover every churches ass and all the way to the Vatican. Just shows how much of a dark world that we live in
One of the best movies of 2015 and probably deserves the Best Picture oscar. An always gripping film that shows good old fashioned investigative journalism. Top notch performances and plenty of emotional scenes make this a movie everyone needs to see.
With brilliant performances led by the entire cast Spotlight hits it in all cylinders from story and emotional impact. Spotlight has it plots right out the gate but development is what stands out the most as films goes on the movie gets better and more emotional. Overall, Spotlight deserves its praise and a view from people.
Intense but snappy, thoroughly absorbing, great ensemble performances. Shades of 1976 "All The President's Men" with Redford & Hoffman
Great movie. Really shines a 'Spotlight' on the Catholic church and its power, while also showing the power of great investigative reporting. We loved the cast, especially Michael Keaton. This movie should not be missed.
Exposed a shocking but very timely issue. Solid story and execution with only a few plot flaws here and there
Great film. Amazing performances, writing, direction. Overall this may be the best film of the year. Powerful and intoxicating. Filmmaking at its finest.
This is a film I will come back quite soon. It's intelligent, the acting is very good (with the Keaton and especially Ruffalo being the MVP's, but Rachel McAdams, Live Schreiber and Stanley Tucci doing great work) but what I really respect about this film is its ambition to focus on the work done, on the issue at hand without glorifying the journalists and without making a fuss about their big victory. I, as a viewer, felt as close to unearthing the scandal and realizing its scope and the personal tragedies related to it as the journalists on the Spotlight team. I also responded to the economy of the cinematic approach (there's not one wasted scene, not one wasted shot) and the refusal to allow sentiment and big dramatic moments associated with such films to make it into the film and turn it into an overblown self-congratulary melodrama.
Quite moving. And important. Great acting, especially Ruffalo. I thought the story was told really well. At the end, I am both very angry and very sad and unsure of which emotion is stronger.
It's tough for me to say exactly why Spotlight worked for me.  There's nothing spectacular that really stands out about it, and in many other films that tried the same style I'd call it boring and pedestrian.  Somehow though, Spotlight pulls it off.  It's plays things simple, and maybe that's what makes it work.  It's the subtlety of it all that makes the whole thing work.  The facts are big, but reactions are subtle, and that makes it all feel more genuine.
I don't think there's anything very special about Spotlight's directing (which makes this year's Oscar nominations pretty surprising), but what really makes the movie work are the performances and the script.    I recognized a lot of the actors at first, but pretty quickly forgot about their past roles and just saw them as people.  They discover horrific details about the catholic sex abuse scandal, but each new reveal doesn't lead them to some huge Oscar-bait outburst, but a more genuine response.  Oftentimes they are simply speechless, and that feels very real.  The script is also great.  It drops you right in the middle of things, these events have already been happening for a while, but it doesn't take long to catch up and it respects you enough to expect that you can.  There was never any point when I was really bored by the movie.
If I have an outright criticism of the movie it's that I maybe would have liked more information, but I don't think that's this movies job.  It tells a very specific perspective of the events unfolding, it would just be nice if there were other movies that gave more perspective.  As this singular perspective though, it works really well.  There's not a lot of character development or anything like that, it's really just the investigation, but that's more than enough to carry the film.  If watching news reporters investigate a story isn't your thing, I get it, it's not going to be riveting for everyone, but it was for me.  I can't really pinpoint the magic ingredient that made Spotlight work so well, but damnit all it really did work so damn well.
A solid story - much in the style of Argo...
Best movie on journalism since all the presidents men
"Spotlight" is about the team of investigative reporters of the Boston Globe that goes by the same name who uncovered the child molestation and cover up scandal by the clergy of the local Catholic Archdiocese. The reporting won the team the 2003 Pulitzer Prize.

"Spotlight" is an ode to investigative reporting that focuses on accuracy, fact checking and restraint in publishing a story until all the facts and circumstances have been fully covered. It is a discipline and an art form that is almost lost in today's world of journalism where the focus have been subverted to get higher ratings (TV), keep subscribers and maintain readership (print media) or to please advertisers (both).

The film features a superb cast that includes Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery and Stanley Tucci, to name a few. The ensemble acting is magnificent. As to the story, it is told with meticulous attention to detail.

"Spotlight" reminds us of "All The President's Men", the 1976 film that focused on the Watergate scandal. But more importantly, this film shows what true and hard-working journalists can accomplish when the focus is on the victims - even if it means taking on an institution that has power, money and resources. It is about performing due diligence and telling an accurate story that, in the end, looks at a system that allowed a cover up to happen.
If I could give this 10 stars, I would. Just extraordinary. Everyone should see this. Everyone.
It amazes me this disgusting organization is still in business, considering the entire entity, including its highest ranking members all the way up to Pope Benedict consciously tried to hide the rape of children. Yet, people continue to fund its operations. I wonder what their imaginary God would say about persons contributing money weekly to an organization whose cottage industry is the rape of children and its subsequent cover-up.
Definitely deserved Best Picture.
Phenomenal movie. The power and quality of this movie comes from its devotion to tell the true story down to nearly every last detail, whether its running to the courthouse as it's closing to get documents for the story, or calling out to sources and getting rejected, or even the accents each character has. The screenplay does well to show the hard work the Spotlight team did to put together the horrible story they discovered, and the performances from its cast are great, especially Ruffalo. As a journalist, this is yet another incredible film that honors the profession and makes me proud to be one.
9 out of 10:

Well acted and an interesting concept.
A great movie!  Excellent acting and very well presented.
Absolutely flawless film. Excellent performances abound in this tightly paced movie that tells its story with economy not usually seen. No extraneous love interests or silly chase scenes. Just a well-told story about people doing their jobs well to expose a travesty. Best movie I have seen this year, and my Oscar pick.
We thought it was great.
And here's the best movie I saw all year;  by every criteria I know -- writing, acting, directing, editing, and for the power and importance of the subject itself -- it's perfection. The story about how the Boston Globe, piece by piece and against tremendous opposition, got to the bottom of the Catholic church's international cover-up of pedophile priests is an homage to the true heroes among us -- those people in service to truth. As for the entertainment factor, what car chases, gun fire and explosions do for some movie goers, this movie did for me -- it's my kind of  thrill ride.
fantastic cast and great film
Very sadly true for us Catholics!
Absolutely great. Wonderfully written and acted. A superb ensemble cast provide great performances in a story that's very important. Should win a large number of awards.
Great acting! Great story! Intense!!
Riveting. Best movie of 2015.  Those responsible in the Catholic Church should be locked away.
Excellent movie on an important topic but, in terms of Best Picture, I preferred The Revenant.
Wel done. Very engaging and inspiring.
The story of uncovering the worst emotional & sexual abuses of children and the cover-up by the Catholic Church in modern history. Excellently written, driected, and acted. A powerful, must-see movie.
This movie did it all but make me cry. It is difficult to keep suspense when people no the outcome. I would recommend watching this for sure.
Gritty expose on investigative journalism that doesn't get stuck on tangents or get too interested in the personal stories of the characters involved.
Great and very intriguing movie. It had a great cast and was well acted.
You know the story. You know the ending (nothing really changes).  Investigative journalism is a slow tedious process, which does not make for a great film. Cue dramatic music as they read books in the library. Listen to the music swell as they drive to another location. 

Not riveting. 

Ruffalo overacts the hell out of his role. Keaton is a cautionary tale for straight men afraid to moisturize.
Fantastic movie and well acted
Ruffalo was fantastic! Best he's done in a long time. Tough subject matter especially if you are an oder Catholic but handled well. Ha to win awards. Tucci was great in an understated role. Keaton, Slattery as well,
Keeping incredible attention to detail and sporting stellar performances on the part of everyone involved, Spotlight delivers a captivating story about investigative journalism and corruption in the Catholic Church
82%
Saw this on 14/2/16
Given the strength and importance of its fact based story, Spotlight, although well acted and made, lacks a punch that is very much necessary. The film makes you feel as though nothing is at stake, there is hardly any tension, no struggle and most of all, even though the film never lionizes its heroes, it fails to give them any form of characterization. In the end, Spotlight feels monotonous and the characters seem to be finding evidence just like how you find clues in a treasure hunt, it's just there somewhere waiting for them to be found. They always say throughout the film that the Catholic Church is so powerful and they try everything to cover up, but still not even once the Church do anything to prevent the Spotlight team from doing what they want. As far as films like these are concerned, The Insider is the very best, a must watch.
All there is to say is, wow, what a powerful movie.
Superb. Fascinating and eye opening
My best picture this year
http://filmreviewsnsuch.blogspot.com/2015/12/spotlight.html
An important story told in a linear and rather uninventive fashion.   Spotlight tells a crucial story in our history, but fails to do justice to the tale by conveying it in a rather straightforward and sequential manner.   Solid performances all around, although Ruffalo is overly pronounced with many of his choices.  Liev Shrieber is brilliantly understated and carries weight with his effortless brilliance.  The film is worth seeing and is fairly successful in depicting a crucial topic.  It just doesn't have the inventiveness to make it a truly brilliant and timeless motion picture.
Nice movie and didn't know that an institution would tolerate such acts even when it is against their most sacred values
Great acting, story, and directing. I kind of wishes it showed better the "clash" between the church and the press, during the forming of the story. And afterwards, to see the results..
01.29.16 - Cinearts Palo Alto, with Bella :-)
This movie was not that great. It gets a high rating based on the content. All these priests getting in trouble....but movie wise....not that great.
Fantastic cast telling a gripping true story.  Highly recommended.
What is wrong with our world that this stuff is so prevalent? Well told story
Brilliant movie. A story told with grace, and not sensationalized.
Well written and acted drama without lagging in interest.
The fact that this is a true story makes it all the more mind blowing
In part to the incredibly sterling cast and relevant story, Spotlight adroitly creates much suspense and drama all whilst stirring up many unsettling feelings about humanity.
Great movie, great cast... Instant classic indie movie.
Possibly the movie of the year...
Powerful movie. Subject manner is unnerving and the ultimate scope of the atrocity is staggering. Cast is a good ensemble. Schreiber's low-key performance exudes power and steals every scene he's in. Michael Keaton continues to just get better and better.
It seems every 5-10 years there seems to be an All the Presidents Men type of film that comes out circling around a very important news story of the time or a time, ranging from Michael Mann's the Insider regarding the 60 Minutes breaking of the insider info of the Tobacco Industry,or Zodiac which focuses on the Zodiac investigation by the Chronicle and San Fran police department in the late 70's. In this case, it is the buried for too long story of the sexual abuse scandal that originated in Boston which is a huge catholic hub that latter spread around the whole globe, at the beginning of the last decade and the Boston Globe Spotlight researchers who ended up picking up the story by their new editor when it was a much smaller case. Very much about the writting and the ensemble cast with very award worthy performances by both Keaton and Ruffalo, Spotlight gradually unfurls all the story threads as the case develops from one possibly lead to many without overplaying its hand and doesnt make things too showey with music, letting the emotion and information pretty much speak for itself as the audience discovers the scope of the misdeads by the church. A for sure Academy Award contender and was very worthy of being a contender for the audience award at TIFF 2015. A great return to form for Mccarthy after the stumble that was the Cobbler.
A movie that gets it right about  reporters, Boston, group mentality and really bad clothing, this one's as good as  "All the President's Men" and "Absence of Malice" -- but not "His Girl Friday" ...
I liked it, but liked Hunger Games and Brooklyn a bit more.
It takes you from the headlines to behind the scenes and you feel like you are drinking water from a fire hydrant.....even what is not said is powerful....this movie should pull down some big awards!!
Honestly one of the best movies in every way that I've ever seen.
Journalism can be a hard topic to cover in film without adding a bunch of unnecessary drama to make it interesting. But Spotlight has the benefit of a great script with very natural dialogue. Nothing here feels forced of feigned. It immersively chronicles the Boston Globe's long-time investigation into the Catholic Church sex-abuse scandal.

As a guy who grew up in the Catholic Church, it isn't easy watching this film and knowing that it's the Catholic Church who is to blame. But like any place where you have people in a position of power, you're going to have those who abuse that power. The Church is no different. And just like not every cop is racist and not every black person plays basketball, not every priest is a child molester. Although I was an alter server as a child and luckily never experienced or heard of anyone personally who suffered through this tragedy, I do shake my head at those who tried to cover it up. 

Although the sex-abuse issues were nationwide, the film focuses mostly on the staggering numbers in the Boston Archdiocese. Catholicism in Boston has been known to be more of a culture in that city than most other places in the country. Their dependence and wholehearted belief in the Church made for a much easier target for predators. It's one thing to idolize God and hold true to your religious beliefs, but it's another to idolize other human beings. To idolize is to believe that one is not capable of fault. Well, the people of Boston held true, more than anyone, that these priests were godlike figures who could do no wrong. It was a sentiment that exuded from everywhere in that city. In California, where I live, I've never experienced anything quite like that in the 26 years I've spent as a practicing member of the Catholic faith. Not to say that these priests aren't expected to lead a holier life than most of our own, but then we look back to that whole abuse of power thing. 

As for the movie, it's very well done. The acting is superb. Director, Tom McCarthy, gets the very best performance out of each of his actors. Especially Liev Schreiber, who does his best Steven Wright impression, always remaining soft spoken, yet intimidating. He never overplays his character, which isn't necessarily easy for an actor to do. 

Mark Ruffalo is perhaps the biggest standout. He's an absolute phenomenon here. He commits so much to every one of his character's idiosyncrasies that it's truly hypnotizing. 

The script is also great, doing well to explain and give background on a lot of the more convoluted details of the story. It can, however, be hard to follow all the names that are being spewed at you, remembering who everyone is. The story moves along briskly with only a slight thinning out for about 10 minutes towards the end.

But the one thing that Spotlight does pretty poorly at is depth, almost as if it's deliberately trying not to have any. It's anything but a character study. There's a lot of implied background for the characters, but you can't help but want a little more. Even in the macro sense, it has several perfect opportunities to explore the psychology behind these child molesters, but the film never really takes advantage of them, thus leaving a few scenes feeling unnecessary.

Despite making unbiased claims, the film does have a bit of an agenda of its own. It tells of certain characters' stated struggles with their faith, although they had already admitted to being lapsed. While it never shows how the Church's scandal would affect actual churchgoers.

Although I'm not commending any of it, I know why Cardinal Law chose to cover up all of those scandals. When you have a society that is full of ignorant people who constantly generalize everything, then you are going to have other people who try and cover up these instances in fear that the general public will, indeed, generalize. And so it happened anyway. Those who aren't Catholic go into this movie and may look at the Church in a negative light. But like I said, people love to think in absolutes. I, myself, don't idolize anyone, but can totally recognize that these are definitely horrible tragedies to be ashamed of.

Twizard Rating: 94
This movie is almost sure to bring home oscars. By my predictions, that'll be one for picture, original screenplay and Michael Keaton (if only as a make up from last year). 

This is an extremely well executed look at a fascinating-yet-horrifying look at a dark spot in the history of religion in America and should be considered a "must watch".
Best movie I've seen in a long, long time!
It was an amazing movie that not only was well written but also well played by a fantastic cast it is not a fast past action packed thriller but I was hooked early on by how well written and how well the story is told. I can't recommend this movie enough!
With a loaded cast of impeccable actors, "Spotlight" shines some light on how tiresome the journalistic process is, especially when dealing with the Catholic Church. This investigative journalism drama is well-written and powerful enough to send its message to the audience.
didn't enjoy it at all
Amazing, intense, well acted.
A great pleasure watching this ensemble of talented actors work through a compelling story well told.
All the President's Men of our generation. Mark Ruffalo is a tour-de-force.
Spotloght is air-tight, almost to tight. Good work from its ensemble cast and a script that handles the subject matter well and with ease.
This is a fantastic drama set around a breakaway branch of the Boston Globe known as Spotlight who were tasked by new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) to blow open a case againt the church and their covered up sex crimes. The 4 person team Robby (Michael Keaton), Mike (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha (Rachel McAdams) and Matt (Brian d'Arcy James) investigated high and low and discovered things they wish they hadnt. The whole cast was superb really complimenting the well structured plot and most deservedly belongs in the oscar race
One of the best movies with a journalistic topic.  Wonderful acting, great dialog, excellent editing to maintain the viewers interest.
Great movie and must see.
Great film that illuminates the power of investigative reporting that                     can lead to a change in a heretofore accepted order of things. Also see the films "Concussion, and "League of Denial,"  that expose the NFL's cover up of the devastating impact of concussions on its players.
Best movie I have seen in 20 years!
Riveting from start to finish
I had goosebumps at the conclusion
Just as good as everyone claims it to be. I work in the media so I found it really intriguing.
Great writing great acting great movie.
Wow! This is just a fantastic film. Every single performance is just pitch perfect. But Mark Ruffalo stood out even among this top-notch cast. This could very well be his year to take home an Oscar. The story is told so well, how the details are discovered, piece by piece and then put together. Not once do they go for shock value. (I guess they didn't really need to, the truth is brutal enough.) But it was really handled with grace and respect toward the victims. The final shot of location names is haunting. This is not only a stellar movie, it's an important film. I hope a lot of people see this.
Really, really well done. Really. #weseealotofmovies #younameit #weveseenit
Spotlight is directed by Tom McCarthy, and this film stars Mark Ruffalo , Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, and pretty much many great actors. And this movie is about a scandal that involves the Catholic church, and there are these reporters played by Ruffalo, and the rest of the actors who are trying to write a story about the scandal, tracking people down. But there are obstacles in the way. When I first heard about this movie, I had a feeling that this movie has some potential. The trailer looks good, and all I knew is that there is this scandal, and there are these reporters trying to put it together and expose the truth. That was all I knew. So I knew this movie was going to be good. And it is. I'm very impressed. This is one of the best movies I have seen this year. And it's all done by its incredible acting, incredible script, and incredible directing. 

This movie deals with a subject matter involving priests and children. There are victims. And these reporters are just out there collecting information from the people who were involved with it. And some of the victims and their siblings have different reactions, and it could be pretty heart breaking too, because these are people who had to put up with it. And it messes them up psychologically. And to make matters worse, this issue has been going on for a long time, and people already knew about it. But they didn't take the time to speak about it. and throughout the entire movie, you are just watching these reporters, doing their jobs like real people, collecting information. And we as an audience are finding some shocking information that we don't see coming. Some information that makes us cringe, because this is based on a true story. And you just want our reporters to get this clear out of the way, and expose the people involved in this scandal. And then it gets to a point where you feel like that this is not a movie. Sometimes when we watch movies based on true events, we know that it happened. But in the end, you think to yourself, it was just a movie. But in Spotlight, you feel like you are transported into the year of 2001 and 2002, where the movie takes place, and you see our reporters doing what they have to do. And it all helps with  our characters. 

Everyone did a flawless job in this movie. All of the characters felt very realistic. There wasn't a scene where I felt like I was just watching an actor. You feel like these people are just real life reporters. Michael Keaton,. First you got Birdman, and now this? You just love seeing him on screen. And you just love some of his scenes. and then you got Mark Ruffalo , who did a mind blowing job. He is the one in the group who wants to get this story out there the most. he is running around, going into buildings, getting documents, writing down information, and you just feel the passion of his job. He is the one affected the most about this case. There was this scene, where he and Michael Keaton has this argument, and Ruffalo and his performance was very outstanding. 

This movie is about mystery, and it really really works. Guys, go and check this movie out. It has outstanding and great performances, and great direction. It's one of the best of the year. If you haven't seen it yet, check it out. This movie is pretty flawless...for the most part. There were a few times where the story drags, but you are going to enjoy watching this film.
Fast-paced and focused, Spotlight is a movie that cares more about its story than trying to ham it up for awards. It makes you think, which is some of the highest praise a film of this genre can be given.
Religion is, and always has been, the problem.  The cancer of the world.
A gripping thriller about the newspaper business, journalism, Boston, the Catholic Church's abusive priests cover-up and corporate restructuring in the media industry. This is not just a story of great moment but a story told excellently with a wonderful ensemble cast and an exciting plot.
Should be considered for Best Picture
This film is based on the true story of how an American publication, the Boston Globe eventually broke the story of the widespread abuse of young children by Boston priests while the Catholic Church stood by and covered it up. After watching this film yesterday at the Dubai International Film Festival 2015, I felt heartbroken, disgusted and furious. It's challenging to make a movie that is as well-made as this one, while also being as difficult to watch. We know the story, we even know how it snow-balled globally, but the raw emotions of disgust and sheer anger permeate much of our being as we watch it unfold on screen. Director Tom McCarthy (The Station Agent, The Visitor) co-wrote the script with Josh Singer (The Fifth Estate) and it's worthy of favorable comparison to other investigative newspaper films like The Insider (1999), Zodiac (2007), and even the All The President's Men (1976). The film defines the misuse of faith, which can be either trust or belief. Faith can also be defined as religion and ideology. The story broke the faith that so many once held, and started a global (as evidenced by the closing credits) reckoning and awakening that was desperately needed. The film offers a line of dialogue, "It takes a village to raise a kid ... or abuse one." In other words, it took the often silent actions of so many to allow this despicably evil horror to continue. In a tribute to the newspaper profession, it took a small group of dedicated reporters to pull back a curtain that should never again be shut. Let's have faith in that. The film does sound like a simple story, but its script is much deeper than that. The film has a heavy subject matter, and thanks to its dialogue, the subject matter becomes more engaging. This is because the story that the characters are trying t0o make big, becomes really disturbing and you, the viewer, will definitely not feel good, whilst watching this movie. The script also not only develops the characters, but shows the passion of trying to spread, as news. The story follows an investigative journalist team called "Spotlight". It's led by editor Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) and his three reporters: Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfieffer (Rachel McAdams), and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James). They report to Ben Bradlee Jr (John Slattery), whose father was the editor of The Washington Post. Under a new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber), the team begins to unfold a horrific pattern of child sexual abuse by the church that was muted and covered up by high priced lawyers and payoffs to victim's families. As Walter probes further and further into the events (the setting is after the events the 9/11) the investigation reveals layers and layers of injustice of Catholic Priests that were aided by the highest powers of the church in an effort to keep the story muted. What is most fascinating about the movie is that it focuses on the investigative aspects - just how diligent the reporters were in putting the story together - and how fluid the process was ... the story led them, not vice versa. There was no media agenda to "get" the church. Instead, the reporters experienced natural shock as each piece of the puzzle was discovered. One of their key sources was a priest-turned-psychologist (voiced by Richard Jenkins) who helped them put scope to the numbers. Another was Phil Saviano (Neal Huff), the leader of a victim's group, who had tried before to provide documentation to the press. Saviano is the perfect example of how someone so passionate about a cause can be viewed with such skepticism ... right up to the point when they are proved correct. Three attorneys add perspective to the cover-up. Eric Macleish (Billy Crudup) made a career of settling cases (and silencing victims) for the church. Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci) is the polar opposite - he fights vigorously to get the victims heard, while Jim Sullivan (Jamey Sheridan) is caught in the middle - settling cases for the church and struggling with his conscience. Other interesting characters include Paul Guilfoyle as Pete Conley, a smooth-talking power-broker for the church, and Len Cariou as Cardinal Law - the man at the top who eventually apologized and was rewarded with a high-ranking position at The Vatican. Where you must begin, with any praise for the film, is the audacious and fortifying script by Tom McCarthy and Josh Singer. The two create cinematic magic in their articulation of words, characters, and narrative storytelling. Each person feels authentic. Each scene feels rich and equally important as the last. Director Tom McCarthy does a great job behind the camera, making the audience feel disturbed by the subject matter of the film. You also feel the determination and passion of these characters, thanks to the direction. I also love the cinematography for looking very realistic, up to the point where the locations, such as the office, looked real. The film is so well crafted and acted that it features more than a few "best scenes". Sacha has a brief encounter with a former priest on his front door stoop. The priest freely admits to molesting kids and his rationalization will certainly deliver chills to most any viewer. Being that the investigation lasted well into 2001, it's quite informative to watch a news agency shift directions for the September 11 tragedy, and along with the nation, put all else on hold. Finally, there is a point in the movie where we as viewers have just about had our fill of extreme emotions - we either need to hit something or throw up - and reporter Rezendes comes through with exactly what is needed: an emotional outburst and release of exasperation rivaling anything previously seen on screen. It's a wonderful moment for Ruffalo as an actor, and a peak moment for viewers. Ruffalo exhibits his best screen performance to date, and makes a stake in his claim for the Oscar this year. Ruffalo builds his 'Mike' from the feet up, giving him his own characteristics that I'm not sure McCarthy and Singer set out to do. His expressions in words, mannerisms, all encapsulate the magnitude of his work, including an explosive scene that brought tears to my eyes. Think back to Emma Stone's acclaimed work in "Birdman," and the scene that made everyone notice. I wanted to simply applaud. Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams, are attune with their characters and destinations. Each bring strong sensibilities and sensitivity to their roles that desperately call for them. Hotly worked into the story is Liev Schreiber as a newly appointed Editor, that in the little screen time he's given, makes a long-lasting impression. Stanley Tucci is also afforded the same opportunity, and gives one of the film's best monologues. On the whole, 'Spotlight' is a very clever movie, with an immensely important topic and near-perfect dialogues, crafted both by amazing actors and great screen writing. If you like seeing a cast keeping things grounded and realistic, and yet have moments of powerful drama and conflict that cuts at a lot of corners of society (especially, also, involving class as this is also a class issue involving low-income families having kids who were molested/raped), this is a film to see. It doesn't exactly leave you feeling all that 'good', but it does celebrate what journalism can do in an non fussy, unsentimental way that is refreshing too. Plus the awards season may just have found its first forerunner. This year has been average at best without any standout films initiating awards conversation, Tom McCarthy's Spotlight rising above the heap to assert itself as one of 2015's best.
Spotlight is based off the true story of the Boston Globe reporters who between 2001 and 2002 revealed to the public the covered up truth that the Catholic priests were molesting vulnerable children from broken homes. Spotlight has to tackle a very upsetting and shocking story and with a great cast and director Spotlight was set to be a great film. After wining the best picture Oscar this year I was very excited for Spotlight which can sometimes be a problem however Spotlight is a very good film. Spotlight has lots of positives, one of the biggest is the absolutely fantastic cast. With a cast of Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, Stanley Tucci, Brian d'Arcy James, John Slattery and Liev Schreiber. Everyone is great, especially Keaton, Ruffalo, McAdams and d'Arcy James. All of them are brilliant and I was especially happy Keaton was in another great film and Birdman wasn't just a one hit wonder. This film is directed by Tom McCarthy who does a good job at presenting this story to us. This film's direction isn't very flashy as Spotlight does feel like a TV movie, but McCarthy does a good job. Tom McCarthy also wrote this film and he does a very good job as Spotlight is constantly interesting and is also very shocking. The most dramatic moments of this film are when we learn about what has happened to some of the victims of the sexual abuse and while we don't actually see any molestation Spotlight is still a difficult film to watch due to the unflinching realism. Whenever our leads here a disturbing story there is no big reaction our outburst it's horrified silence which makes the film feel much more realistic. The ending of this film is also incredibly powerful and the ending shot is very haunting. While Spotlight is a great and very well made film there are problems which hold it back from being truly fantastic. I mentioned earlier that this film feels very TV movie, so the style takes a while to get in to. The cinematography is a bit unremarkable as while there are some great moments it's nothing amazing. Also in the first half of the film whenever there's a scene transition there's a four bar piece of music that plays and it gets extremely repetitive. However Spotlight is a very good film and a truly shocking film. While it has problems it's still really good and I'm happy I watched it. A-
Exceptional film. Great acting and mind blowing storyline. Go see it.
Riveting. it's too bad the Academy does not give an Oscar "Best Ensemble." It would win hands down.
There are some really good movies that you simply like to watch over and over again, and then there are some like Spotlight while very good, I don't think I want to see ever again.  Spotlight is very well written and acted and directed, so much so you feel like you are back in 2001 when this behavior by some priests was uncovered by the Boston Globe.  As the husband to a Catholic wife and father to Catholic children and son to a Catholic mom, I grieve alongside them at all that came forward through this investigation, and is why I don't think I want to sit through this movie again.  I was riveted and engaged was the story unfolded and surely sympathized with the victims as their stories were told.  However, the pure subject matter is hard for me to handle more then one viewing.  It's not that any of the behavior was shown on the screen, just the knowledge of the subject matter is enough for me.  This is a worthy best picture candidate, but I sure don't want it to win.
https://medium.com/@Smichaels/spotlight-review-8999476a26aa#.xyltzwobx
WHO WILL LOVE THIS MOVIE: If you can't get enough of films like All The President's Men and Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, you MUST see this. Maybe more than once.

WHO WILL HATE THIS MOVIE: If you consider films like This Is The End, Bridesmaids, The Night Before, or any Adam Sandler movie to be high art, or SO FREAKIN AWESOME DEWWWWD, save your money. Please. That way, the rest of us won't have to deal with your moaning, your pronounced yawns, your talking and giggling, and your texting. Much appreciated.
The acting is nuanced and expertly controlled, the pacing is perfect, and the subject matter is treated with tremendous respect.

Serves to remind us why investigative journalism is so important.
Inspired casting and pitch perfect scripting make Spotlight an astounding achievement.  Spotlight adds to a long list of great investigative procedurals such as All The Presidents Men, The Insider and Zodiac.  This film however, gets at something more profound, and that is journalism as moral imperative.  What obligations do journalists have to investigate a possible story?  If the press fails to act on possible leads or to take a story seriously or take on a story because it might be too difficult, are they culpable for any harm that is done?  Where is that line drawn?  Spotlight invades a small investigative unit of the Boston Globe during one the city's most damning hours, the possible high level cover up of the molestation of thousands of children over the course of several decades by dozens of local priests and clergy, to answer these questions.  What really makes the film great is how Michael Keaton deals with the dilemma of bringing the story to live, while trying to square with the fact that the newspaper, under his watch, failed to uncover and report the story for decades despite mounting evidence of wrongdoing.  Its a truly dynamic piece of filmmaking that should find itself in the drivers seat for best picture, screenplay and supporting actor come Oscar time.
Spotlight is hands down of the best films of 15.
Excellent. Best investigative story since All the President's Men! Shows how we need to keep our newspapers.
Great performances by the entire cast. A riveting movie.
As good or better than the reviews!
I thought the acting was superb and the story line kept my attention throughout.   Really liked this movie a great deal
Every Catholic needs to see this movie!
One of the best journalist films I have seen in the past couple of years!! this is a very heavy film to watch but the style of narrative and story bring so much power to a very heavy issue! Excellent acting and it feels like its very important for us to understand!! truly an excellent film!!
One of the best movies of the year.  Less difficult to watch than I expected, because the story was fascinating.
Spotlight, based on true events, should be watched and rewatched. A drama of high intensity. The cast is brilliant, realistic, and give unforgettable performances. Really makes one appreciate Journalism. Well done.
Fantastic film that shows the very horrifying events in the Catholic Church were priests molested children and was uncovered by the spotlight group in the Boston Globe that uncovered it in 2001 in which the film follows.  All 6 leads are respectively great in their roles especially Keaton and Ruffalo who are the most interesting. Director Tom McCarthy does a brillant job keeping this movie as toned down and realistic as possible. This film is a very toned done and self contained film like Steve Jobs. It is definitely not for everyone and is not that rewatchable due to its disturbing content. None the less, I am rating this film as a movie and nor on rewatchability. This film is without a doubt a perfect film that tells a very interesting story that will intrigue and also horrify you to were you may keep a close eye on your children next time you go to mass.

Grade: A+
A movie every devoted catholic should see!!
Powerful and sensitive portrayal of a community's betrayal of trust.
Clean, crisp, and viscous. An eye opener that paints a complex story into a stand alone statement. Don't turn away because it's hard to watch or the blood will run over your hands.
From time to time, if we are so lucky, a movie comes along that stands out among the rest. Not because of how big the special effects are, how many jokes it has, or because of how many different groups of people took a liking to it because it pandered to their ideals; but rather because of how simple it is and how complex subject matter elevates it to a higher level of social prominence. This is the case for the new independent film Spotlight; a riveting story that shows how The Boston Globe brought to light one of the darkest stories in recent memory. I wont spoil too much about this film but I will say that this deals with the discovery of child molestation in the Catholic Church and how one newspaper fought to bring light to this horrific issue. There is simply not one thing I could see wrong with this film so lets dive in and talk about where this movie excels. The main area this movie succeeds is in how subdued the acting is as well as the major scenes. The cast here includes award worth performances form Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAddams, and Liev Schrieber. They make up the primary cast here and their performances are above exemplary. Each actor delivers strong performances and never brings the element of melodrama to their scenes. It would have been easy for them to scream and shout to the news they discover but they all show multiple emotions at the same time that makes this movie feel more real than any other movie I have seen since 12 Years a Slave. The writing here is equally powerful highlighting terrific dialogue as well as scenes that will crawl under your skin and keep you invested throughout the film. The big scenes in the film are very subdued in their delivery. The lack of musical score in some parts even elevates them to new heights as they let the dialogue sink in rather than musical swells. The dialogue also carries weight with every scene that we as movie goers simply aren't used to anymore. The climax of the film in particular comes form the dialogue rather than set pieces of arrests or anything else. Director Tom McCarthy also delivers some of the finest scenes shot this year. His direction, along with outstanding cinematography, blend together perfectly for a crisp view of the Boston Globe building as well as Boston as a whole. This movie's setting in Boston also serves as a strong point here. We are constantly reminded of how tight knit the city is and even goes as far as to why a story like this is so prominent and elevates the film even further in terms of drama as well as suspense. Overall I can not possibly praise Spotlight enough. It takes on of the darkest story and handles it with care and delivers one of the finest films in years. Everything works here and I implore all of you to go and see this film when you can.
Every single thing about this story and film is award worthy, important and worth seeing.  It's hard.  It's revolting.  It's infuriating.  It must be known.
A very skillful telling of a serious subject.  The 2 hours flew by.  Great direction and acting.
Subtle yet powerful. Would love to see Ruffalo awarded for his performance. Keaton, McAdams, and Tucci made for a strong emsemble. I grew up Catholic...this hits home.
Very affecting film told in an effective way. The acting is good but tight direction makes a story about journalists reporting into something that feels like an effective action film
One of the best movies of the year. Gripping from the start.
Wow very powerful movie.  Makes you think.
Incredible movie. Fantastic cast. Won't help you like the catholic church.
what a clunky piece of garbage. so heavy handed. seems the church may have directed and shot and edited that one. lmao
Absolutely the best movie i've seen in years. I  completely lost track of time and was sorry when it was over.
Fantastic movie; another great film about investigative journalism in the vein of All the President's Men. The writers did a great job telling the story. My one critique: the film needed more of a post script.
Might need to see it a few times to get all the details but VERY POWERFUL!
Important and powerful film that will make you leave the theater angry, in tears, or both. The cast was amazing and the acting drew me in. The pace is a bit slow but did keep me hooked the whole time. Stay till the very end - the last few frames before the credits will likely blow you away.
Heartbreaking, inspiring, and brilliant, Spotlight will be well represented at the Oscars. This is a movie for grownups on a topic (predator catholic priests) that will educated, outrage and satisfy audiences. The acting was superb (a powerhouse cast) and despite the subject matter, the conclusion was not without its positive conclusions. This dramatic true-life drama set in Boston is quite a palate cleanser from all the bubblegum superhero flicks we've been OD-ing on lately. 

A special note to the two christian, senior citizen women who had the nerve to berate us after the movie because we laughed too much throughout the movie. Keep your judgemental pointing fingers in your pockets. Of course it is a serious topic, but that doesn't mean the humour was to be endured in silence. And frankly, the hypocrisy and irony presented throughout the movie could have you shaking your fist at the movie, weeping and laughing. The movie was that good with its ability to touch on so many emotions. I will not apologize for laughing at the outrageousness and irony that carefully peppered the film to break various tense scenes. 

I've never considered giving two old ladies a good shove down a set of stairs, but last night (with the insults by two women who "go to church every sunday" - more hypocrisy) it was as close as it gets.
Maybe the best movie ever of true journalism
Excellent movie. Amazing cast....
Great movie and performances by a great cast.  Glad we are seeing more of Michael Keaton again.
Faceless paper shuffling.
Catholic bigotry at it's best. Go check your local school district and see how that is going for the children abused and molested by union protected faculty!
I'm not sure it qualifies as an "easter egg," but there is a scene in a bar with a Penn State college football game airing on the TV. Joe Paterno is featured prominently on the sideline. It's too obvious to be a coincidence.
Sometimes suspense lagged a little but I like that it didn't seem to exaggerate things just for the movies sake.
This seems to be the movie that is getting all the award buzz for 2015.  I do think that this is a really good movie.  It is well acted, well directed, and is interesting.  However, at least for my own personal tastes, it is not my favorite of the year.
Well acted, great screenplay - overall my favorite for the year!!
It was fine, I guess...  Ruffalo could have dialed it back a little bit, but it was fine.
Fabulous movie. Deserves Oscar nominations.
Amazing Movie. As good as "the Wire" in narrative quality. So well-crafted, in terms of incorporating all the multiple facets of the story. And the "exposition" is so well-weaved-into the warp and weft of the story. I so hope they get acknowledged with Oscars. I am torn apart less by the movie's accounting of 2002, and more about a recent NPR show that revealed that even today, absolutely every "reform" the Catholic Church can speak to was forced upon them, by the courts or the press, rather than any true voluntary proactive change of attitude within.
Shocking and disturbing.  The last 60 seconds are the most powerful and mind blowing I have seen in a movie in a long time...it literally took my breath away.
A wonderful ensemble cast portrays the newspaper team who uncover secrets and coverups that initiates the world wide crisis in the Roman Catholic archdioceses. This well written story defies convention for movies about journalism. Quality performances, script and outstanding musical orchestration. Worth seeing for its drama, but also for the historical perspective.
One of the best films this year. Great storytelling with an outstanding cast. It doesn't embellish the Boston Globe or its reporting journalists.
I highly recommend this movie.
this movie really takes you by surprise,slow paced at first but then you want to know more about this shocking story.everyone that is devoted to catholicism should watch this.
Sure, it's not as exciting as a Mad Max or a The Martian, but this movie deals with one of the most important scandals of our time and shows us why real journalism is sorely missing from today's mainstream media. Definitely check it out.
Best movie of the year, once you get past Mark Ruffalo's terrible accent.
Excellent, important film. Superb writing and ensemble cast bringing to light an important and disturbing part of recent history. It's like th All The President's Men of this generation.
Great movie! Sure it was slow and long but amazing movie and watching their struggles having to stay silent with the truth makes you wonder how you would handle a situation like that.
Excellent film bringing the truth forward. Must see for all!
Never has investigated journalism been so intense & so visceral since "All the President's Men." Keaton, Ruffalo & Tucci are the highlights in this brilliant ensemble cast, and McCarthy does an amazing job unveiling a story that rocked the beginning of the 21st century.
The story is told in a very realistic type of way. It's not too melodramatic or over dramatic and it never felt like the subject matter was taken lightly. It's a very serious problem that was filmed with great respect and professionalism. The acting is absolutely phenomenal, especially Mark Ruffalo. The way the plot develops is so unsettling but fitting. The movie gets the story out just like the spotlight team did back in the day. A very heart wrenching, disturbing and emotional movie filmed to utter perfection.
Well done. Riveting even though you think you know how it ends.  Wonderful ensamble cast.  Not a weak performance among them.  Loved it.
A well done movie about a horrible story. I can see why it won best picture.
Spotlight was a good movie. Not great, not memorable, but it kept my attention. It also reminded me of a movie released in 1975, Three Days of the Condor, which in spite of it's one similarity to this movie, was indeed Great. What did they have in common? In both cases they promulgated a big lie, by sanctifying the New York Times (or in this case, it's subsidiary, Boston Glob) and it's 'journalists' as constituting the last line of defense of our civil-liberties in this country. What it clearly demonstrated: if someone happens to be on the list of people that Liberals and Leftists despise, these so-called journalists will leave no stone unturned in their attempt to discredit, defame and if possible destroy that person professionally and personally. However, if you happen to be on their list of people who can do no wrong -- they will do whatever is necessary to prop up whatever lies, half-truths, or popular prejudices they can to prevent an inconvenient truth about that person from seeing the light of day. So, for those who prefer to think of this movie as pure fiction, taking place on a planet nowhere near our solar-system, I gave it 3-starts. !;)
This is a top-shelf movie...!!  Go see it...
Solid performance across the board with this very talented ensemble, very gripping and fascinating look at of the the great scandals of this country.
Took a long time to get to the hook.
I had avoided this film up until now because I don't tend to like "issue" films a whole lot.  There are great ones, but many of them are fairly bland and uncinematic.  I shouldn't have.  This is a quietly great one.  "All the President's Men" is a good point of comparison.  Both are low key films that focus on the details of an investigation and feature outstanding acting by an ensemble cast.  Tom McCarthy has directed a handful of brilliant, low-key indie films (let's just pretend "The Cobbler" never happened), and he brings that approach to this genre.  It doesn't sensationalize the issue, but the scope of the scandal gradually evolves and you start to really share the characters's outrage and amazement that something this big could have been going on in virtual secret for so many decades.
Unsettling to accept this inconvenient truth... 
Great ensemble casting and just as great acting by Ruffalo and Keaton.
Fantastic movie. Awful topic, awesome acting.
Awesome movie. Mark Ruffalo was outstanding. Highly reccomend!
I loved this movie! Best picture I've seen all year. Ensemble cast is strong throughout. Made me sad and angry.
Great acting. Great directing. Thoughtful storytelling. Go see it!
Great movie and simply superb performances
It is so difficult to make an exciting movie about a real life subject that everyone knows about and also knows how it will end. Nonetheless, this great ensemble cast under skilled Direction and a terrific script accomplish this most challenging task.
Perfectly crafted, beautifully acted, profound and restrained all at once.
This drama based on true events does tell a good story about how the ball got rolling in this cover-up. But as a movie, it doesn't quite meet the mark. Some of the acting (especially from Ruffalo) is average, and there are a few filler scenes and dead spots. I was expecting more complexity and revelations as the movie unfolded. With all of the recent media reports and government inquiries into these matters, the facts didn't produce the shock value which they would have when these stories initially broke in the media.D. AAW GGN AFI 1001
A film that immerses you in the frenzied world of investigative reporting, and does not take a break for exposition.  If you can keep up, this is an unbelievable and important true story worth seeing.
Spotlight is an inspiring and extraordinary experience, a film that doesn't shy away from the dark subject matter and treats its audience like adults.
A vital presentation of vital moment in modern reporting, this expertly made film perfectly Spotlights the uncovering of a national travesty with minimal - if any - yellow journalism. Comparisons to All the Presidents Men are inevitable. The utmost of compliments, it just makes sense. That chronicle of the hard-hitting workmanship of two attack-dog reporters unraveling a duplicitous office break-in that ultimately topples a presidential administration defined straight-ahead storytelling, never discoloring their efforts by discussing home lives or their feelings on the politics of the institution itself. Likewise, Spotlight rarely - if ever - bends to subjectivity. The success of both films can best be summed up by the oft-quoted catchphrase of Sgt. Joe Friday (played by jack Webb) in Dragnet: "Just the facts, ma'am. Only the facts." Spotlight dwells very little on the private lives of the reporters in question. When these straight-shooting characters do voice their indignity, it comes off as an authentic venting of frustration when they disagree on when to go public with the truth brought to light by their investigation. Their quest is not a takedown of religion, but of the many community institutions that helped to bury a nefarious conspiracy-not just the Catholic church.

This R-rated drama presents the true story behind how The Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core. 

Tom McCarthy, the writer-director behind beautiful character pieces The Station Agent The Visitor, provides filmgoers with a riveting tale that tries not to editorialize the despicable events at its center. The reporters themselves get handled in the same fashion, neither heroes or villains-just people. The A-Level lived-in performances behind these characters make this all the most a heartbreaking work of genius. Even though one name after another boasts marquee star power (Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci), this ensemble honors their craft by making this dastardly affair unsettlingly real.

Bottom line: Right Hand of God
One sign of a good writer is his ability to take an epic story such as this and make it easy to follow; realistic and challenging, with one of the best ensembles of the year.
Mark Ruffalo is wonderful in this film. Slow at the beginning but ends well.
A powerful, captivating look at just the beginning of the Catholic Church abuse investigations. At times, the imagery seemed a little heavy-handed, but the acting and direction were terrific. It's a heavy film, but an important one.
Powerful and intense.  One of the best movies I have ever seen.
Imperdible para ara los futuros periodistas. Michael Keaton genial
See this movie anyway you can. DON'T FORGET. Write it down, put it on queue, whatever you gotta do. I'm ashamed that I remember this story and wrote it off as "ya the world sucks, what else is new" without giving all aspects of it full mental understanding.
I liked it. No real complaints. I though it was well-executed. I think there were a few moments in beginning  I dazed off into space because of the slow pace. (Plus I heard someone in the bottom rows snoring VERY loudly.) But  besides that, excellent work.
Absolutely wonderful from start to finish. Very painful to watch, but well worth
Horrifying... Everyone should see this film...
What there is of the story is good but having lived through it...only half the story
Compelling. Nobody escapes with clean hands. But what the hell kind of accent was Mark Ruffalo using?
Succeeds because it puts the audience alongside the reporters, allowing us to share the incredulity, disgust and frustration.
Good solid movie, just a little long. Great cast of actors. Nothing bad to say about this film, really.
What made the priests' crimes so profoundly evil was that they KNEW the giant power structure -- of the Catholic Church -- would protect them, which ultimately, gave them the ability to then groom and rape even more frequently.  The movie explained how many of the abused children (as young as 4) later became so depressed that they killed themselves or died from substance abuse.  What the movie didn't say: All those who were complicit to the crimes will one day have to FACE GOD.
Best drama of the year! Fantastic cast. Great writing.
A brilliantly made film about an incredibly unfortunate topic. Not very hard to see why this earned a Best Picture nomination. I love the way this really digs into the investigative process and shows the dedication of the reporters. One of the best of 2015.
Great cast, really interesting story. Only problem is the cinematography got really reptitive and standard. It was a nice looking movie but it looked good with pretty standard and repeating shots. I think they did the follow shot behind the actor as they walk from one location to another at least 15 times. It was fine the first time but as they kept using it I just found myself bored with the style or lack there of. But overall it was a really interesting movie and I liked it. It's worth a watch.
A deeply intriguing look into a darkly disturbing scandal. I've got a soft spot for journalist/investigation-centred films and this definitely pulled it off (with excellent performances to boot).
A striking, honest and perfectly crafted feature of the greatest exposure in history. Spotlight benefits greatly from director-writer Tom MchCarthy's confident handling, strong performances from it's ensemble cast, and a purely human sense of tone to create an award season drama that makes as this year's best movie so far.
tough topic but was well executed. Great acting.
A very solid film, well directed with good performances that sheds light on an unsettling and shameful chapter while never losing its message of hope for victims of abuse.
Very well done movie. Great acting and story telling of what happened many years ago.
Engaging and supremely well performed; never shies away from but never repulses with the subject matter.
This film was really good, and arguably one of the best this year. What is astonishing is this film is just acting. There are no actions scenes to speak of, and every scene is carried by the actors and actresses' performance. In a sense this film is very similar to "All the Presidents Men" in regards how the reporters pursue a story, and showing the amount of work it took. This scenes are mostly carried by the reporting crew, and each person did a great job portraying their characters. Beyond the main reporting crew, the supporting characters were amazing as well. Despite Liev Schreiber and John Slattery getting limited time, but both of them put in amazing performances in their respective roles. The only complaint, and it's not a major complaint at all, is the movie starts out slow. It takes about 20 minutes for the movie to get moving in regards to pursuing the story. Overall it works, but it does start out slow. 

Finally as a Catholic I should mention this, but the movie did a great job not bashing the religion or making it into a 2 hour anti-Catholic piece. It simply portrayed what happen as it did without an additional narrative added, and the movie was more about the actual reporters trying to make sure what they report is the entire truth.
A riveting look at one of the most important news stories ever investigated.  Its pace and attention to detail make it feel incredibly accurate.  This movie helps illustrate why it is such a travesty that the newspaper industry is dying.
Beautifully, well-crafted, Spotlight offers viewers the realities of what really goes on in some Catholic churches.
A very enjoyable movie, with some good acting. The movie does a good job of portraying how damaging the abuse is on the abused
Una pelÃÂ­cula esencial. No solo por el sÃ (C)ptimo arte, sino por la historia detrÃÂ¡s. Una historia que todos deben saber: respecto al encubrimiento de la iglesia catÃÂ³lica a los abusos cometidos a miles de niÃÂ±os. Claramente muestra que no es solo un rumor sino una investigaciÃÂ³n seria. Con razÃÂ³n #spotlight se lleva el #oscar a mejor pelÃÂ­cula.
I cannot recommend this enough. The movie is fantastic and eye opening. It must be seen.
Brilliant movie, that takes a straightforward approach to a touchy subject and deals with it to perfection. Fantastic acting, brilliant directing, Spotlight has everything you want in a newsroom drama.
A perfect movie. So skillfully done, I have watched and enjoyed it multiple times, despite the sobering subject matter. Exquisite cast with great performances.
Thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Was not sure I even wanted to see this because of the subject matter, but it was great.
Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams are great in this movie. The movie moves along very well, and handles a sensitive subject very well.
It's very issue focused, rather than character focused-an aspect that makes it hard for me to get involved. It often gets overly sappy, focused on these victims to get emotion out of you. I did like Mark Ruffalo. He was great. Rachel McAdams and Keaton were pretty good too.
Outstanding cast, acting, and script. Intelligent and informative. Great movie!!!!!!!
Pretty good, some of the details are fascinating (and shocking), Well-acted. But its a flat film, not emotionally involving, and the characters are not three-dimensional and don't interact the way real people do. Solid film but seems quite over-hyped to me.
Spotlight is a superb presentation of a story everyone ought to understand.

I'm an ex-Catholic Atheist, and I saw this movie with a Jewish friend. When it was over, I told him, "I can never understand what it's like to be Jewish, and you can never understand what it's like to be Catholic." I was not comparing the darkness of my bruises with his, I merely meant that we all carry our own special forms of spiritual burden. The impact of the parish priest on a faithful Catholic child is profound. These men were our spiritual heroes. I recognized on a deeply resonating level the impact of the depth of betrayal and scarring these monsters perpetrated on thousands of innocent children. 

I mean like burn victim-level scarring. 

The only question was how graphically this movie would portray the predations of these priests. Spotlight is actually quite restrained in this regard. Although the movie is essentially about the journalistic process - "how I got that story" - director Tom McCarthy could have easily gone whole hog with vivid flashback scenes. Thankfully, he didn't. He told two stories - two out of thousands - with simple, fact-based spoken descriptions of the priestly predations. It was restrained, and more than sufficient. After all, it's unlikely anyone seeing the movie doesn't know about the scandal. We come to this movie with ready fury, we hardly need convincing. 

Excellent performances across the board. This story could not have been told more clearly and more effectively. I think the moviemakers approached it with a sense of obligation to history to tell the story as  truthfully as possible, without varnish or hype. The truth is unthinkable enough.
Smart, gripping, and incredibly well acted, Spotlight is filled with details of its factual story, strong representations of its real-life subjects and news reporters, and even stronger performances by Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and Stanley Tucci, it works as a dramatization of the actual event and as a movie!
I highly recommend all my journo friends check this out. Fantastic! How the Boston Globe broke the Catholic Church pedafile priests story. The thing that struck me is how how many people the problem touched, and how many people and organizations had blinders on to it for years, including newspapers.
Wow! Such an incredible movie. The cast selected was perfect.
Great, believable acting. I was on the edge of my seat the last third of the movie. However, the lack of a strong on-screen conflict lessened its dramatic impact.
Amazingly well done! Really stayed true to the story and acting was superb. It's a must see.
A great piece of journalism.
Tightly written, well acted and details a very important story. But lacks suspense and character depth.
Rating: Fantastic 

Spotlight is one of those films that does exactly what it seeks to do without flaw, making you interested and believe a real life story. Once I got engaged with the material and the characters I never questioned what was happening, it felt like I was watching history of the Catholic church abuse scandal unfold before my eyes.

This is done primarily through the world class talent that delivers on all fronts: Keaton, Ruffalo, Tucci, McAdams. I was particularly impressed with the smaller role of Liev Schreiber as well, perfectly portraying a hesitant yet poignant leader. The only thing that detracts from the entirety of the film is the length, it felt long and a slew of characters made me notice the chair discomfort eventually. 

However this is still a gem of a movie that should be experienced not only because of it's superb execution, but because it tells an important story of real life events that affect the human beings that live around us in your community.
Good, interesting, but no whammy.
Excellent storytelling that must be told. McCarthy does a great job of getting and holding your attention for the entire movie!
Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, and Rachel McAdams are all spectacular, and if you can stomach the disturbing material (it's handled somewhat delicately, but it's still disturbing nonetheless), it's definitely worth seeing.
Towards the end of the film, after the story has been printed, Keaton and Ruffalo sprint through the newspaper offices on a Sunday morning.  A hotline had been set up  for survivors of abuse to call in and speak to the reporters.  As Keaton and Ruffalo reach the doorway of their office, they hear the chorus of phones ringing and see their fellow reporter, played by Rachel McAdams, trying to answer every call.  After spending the better part of a Sunday morning listening to what one can only assume are the worst stories imaginable, she sees her coworkers and gives a small smile.  The story has been reported, the work remains.
Perfect movie with pace, drama and great momentum.
Certainly among the elite films of 2015, Spotlight delivers as one of the leading Oscar contenders this year. A terrific ensemble cast performance in addition to sleek direction and writing make Spotlight a must-see.
Great acting. Plot revolves around actual events of the 60's.
Spotlight is a biographical drama directed  by Tom McCarthy and stars Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Brian d'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber, and Billy Crudup. 
The film follows Boston Globe's Spotlight team and its investigation into cases of widespread and systemic child sex abuse in the Boston area by numerous Roman Catholic priests. 
This is a masterpiece of a film, with incredible acting and a great true story to go along with it. The director Tom McCarthy totally got the story right and paid tribute to the amazing journalists while never making them look like people with superpowers or anything other than normal people tackling a story with weight for the good of everyone. 
Everybody does a fantastic job here, but Mark Ruffalo stood out to me the most from the bunch. He was amazing and was fully committed to the role from beginning to the end. 
Also the soundtrack by Howard Shore was Oscar worthy even though it wasn't even nominated on the category for some reason. Everything from the cinematography to the music and the editing builds up to an absolute masterpiece of a film that is created superbly for our eyes to enjoy and our minds to think.
Excellent film. Everyone needs to see it. Well acted by top actors. Especially enjoyed Liev Schreiber's underplaying of Marty Baron. Highlights how a team of investigative reporters had persistance, patience and the drive to bring a nasty period of hiding of pedophila by the Catholic Church in the 1950-2000. Very honest, as it conveys the truth that not only the bishops and cardinals knew, but many were culpable who looked the other way.
Fantastic story with a crew of amazing actors. Be on the look out come award season, this film is sure to take home its share of awards.
This was one of the better films of the year. Very well cast and portrayed. In a world where the slime of print and broadcast media sticks to everyone it touches, this one shows that it doesn't have to be that way. There are good guy heroes in the world and they don't need to wear a cape and fancy underwear. It also made me very glad to be rid of god and all of the crap that goes with it.
By far one of the best movies I've seen in a long time and the ratings are well deserved.  When you see the movie you will understand why the ratings are so high yet the movie was so under publicized.  Every person should see this movie.
Such a great movie! From beginning to end, this was the only non-action movie that had me at the edge of my seat.
An amazing true-to-life depiction of events. Top notch acting in a film that reflects the systemic cover-up of abuses suffered at the hands of priests. This film and Ruffalo is worthy of an oscar. Albeit a brief monologue, Ruffalo delivers it and the truth at the center of this film... gripping the audience by the throat. More interesting however is that this movie exposes how victims are often the ignored collateral and often forgotten entities.
Probably one of the best movies of the year.  A well researched story presented in a manner to reveal all the details, ensuring that even a delicate matter is represented in full.  Great acting
 from the entire cast.  Worth watching...
One of the best movies on journalism
It's that good!! And sad.....another reason why I haven't been a Catholic for the last 12 years...Richest and most powerful corporation in the world.
Impeccable acting--especially from Keaton, Ruffalo, and Tucci--great writing, confident and skillful directing, and an important story that needs to be told make Spotlight a sure cinematic winner.
You can't go wrong with Keaton! Great movie and eye opening! Must see
showed the research that goes in to put out the correct information. Wasn't a story, more of a warning.
Fabulous casting, really great performances, especially from Ruffalo, and an incredible story with many goosebumps moments as the scale of the abuse and cover-up is revealed. Satisfying. Recommended.
Amazing.  The depth of the cover up was immense, and Boston was only scratching the surface.
A perfectly scripted and perfectly paced film displays the horrible guilt that comes with true self-examination. On one side, the relatively new institution of the American free press. On the other side, the two-millennia old institution of the Roman Catholic Church. On paper, it sounds like a conspiracy of epic proportions, and when you relive these events through these eyes, the implication becomes that much more heartbreaking: we knew, and did nothing. Why? Because how dare we challenge something that has been around for two thousand years? But as the events of the film show, it takes outsiders to hold the mirror to ourselves so that we can accept the truth.
Spotlight is the polar opposite of The Revenant when it comes to storytelling, and that is not a bad thing in the least. The two films act as pillars of filmmaking in 2015. One uses visual splendor to draw the viewer in to the film, while stark violence and raw emotions allow the audience to relate to the characters. The other builds up a rapport with the viewers through realistic and relatable dialogue, about a subject that needs to be talked about and explored with characters that we genuinely like based on their personalities and not their actions alone. Both are excellent, they just differ greatly. Spotlight covers the topic of the journalism team that uncovered the sexual abuse cover up taking place in Boston churches and the importance of investigative journalism as a whole. With a cast lined from back to front with top performers such as Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and John Slattery, it is brimming with characters that we root for, but also believe to be real people. The story required a grounded approach, one that wasn't heavy handed, and Spotlight delivers. You won't find a grandiose score, or long takes to emphasize moments. Everything here is earned based on the performances and subject matter alone, and it is refreshing. In a season filled with Oscar hopefuls, this film feels genuine. If you haven't already, put Spotlight at the top of your must watch list. 5 out of 5 stars.
There isn't really a bad performance in "Spotlight", even the extras are good, and the movie fully displays how compelling and sad the situation is without being overwhelming. A must see for just about everyone
Riveting from beginning to end.
In the same league as "All The President's Men", but it tells the story of a far more corrupt and evil syndicate.- the Roman Catholic Church. Cry for its victims.
It's a perfect movie, what more can I say?
Best movie of the year.
Fascinating investigatory drama which questions how and when we challenge power and authority.  Mark Ruffalo delivers a great performance as a uniquely nuanced character.  Michael Keaton does an excellent job demonstrating the emotional complexity in handling this kind of case.  It raises questions of religion and belief, why some stray from our religious upbringing while others hold onto it.  The minor characters, the victims of the story, are real stars and bring amazing performances.  My only issue (and this is a personal one) is that it is fast-paced and drops a lot of names early on, so it took me a while to catch up.  Ultimately, the movie shows how journalism can bring the truth to light or how it can bury it.
Eye-opening, relevant, amazing cast.
Intense. Liev Schreiber and the gang are awesome.
The most boring movie I have ever seen. When I tried to ask for a refund was told that I was not the only one who hates it.  Save your money and time and don't see another gluck of priests abusing boys. Favorite Hollywood theme.
Best of the year. And it's not close
Extremely well acted and paced, Spotlight honors the process that was involved in unearthing the scandal as much as it did the victims.
what a cast, flawless performances. Mark Ruffalo shines bright in this role.  Tragic story, still happening.
Outstanding on so many levels.  With great pacing and acting, it tells an important story that not only examines the dangers of giving trusted institutions a "pass" on wrongdoing, but also highlights the importance of investigative reporting in righting societal wrongs.
Very interesting, well done movie with great acting, though obviously sad and hard to watch at times.
It has been a long time since a movie like this has emerged from Hollywood and it is a must see. Like the documentary of those raped in the military, you will be disgusted by the ending lines of what happened after.
A movie that I hope everyone will go see. The story that needs to be told, the acting that is outstanding, the script that keeps you glued to the screen til the credits come on, and you think, its over already?
I'm not sure what makes me angrier: this horrible cover up by the Catholic Church or the fact that I'm the only person I know who was excited about seeing this movie.  Amazing cast.  Amazing Story.  Weak soundtrack, though.
Excellent movie in so many respects, I cannot list them all here.  Suffice to say, it's the rare movie with an outstanding cast, superior art visuals, well-paced, and respectful (versus further exploitation of children for "dramatic" effect). to the victims of abuse.  Respect ends there.  The systemic" aspects of the Catholic Church's failure to protect children worldwide is the movie's focus, 
with a caveat that the problem is not yet completely 
eradicated.

A "must see" with certain Academy Awards in its future.
Wow!  Great acting, terrible issue, phenomenal reporting.  Loved it!
Excelente ejemplo de un grupo de actores trabajando en equipo y cada uno a sus fortalezas. Y una buena mirada a como las grandes instituciones trabajan en silencio para arrojar verdades, o guardar secretos.
Sad but great story. Well acted. Kinda expected more.
Another well made fact based drama filled with terrific performances. From a first viewing I cannot understand why everyone is raving about it. The story is eye opening and disturbing, but the rest of the movie is quite generic (in a good sense). I will have to watch it again.
Es una gran historia, pero esto no lo convierte en una gran pelicula. Lastimosamente como un largometraje no funciono para mi. El final... enserio? No se no todo el cine tiene que gusta pero esta peli es basura para mi.
Fascinating story. Well directed. Well acted. Memorable movie.
Makes me long for the days of real newspapers.
The movie you can take your mom and dad to this awards season.
Wonderfully realized look at the Boston Globe article that exposed numerous molestations by local Catholic priests.  The film is one of the great investigating movies where each bit of revelations lead to more disturbing avenues.  It is on a par with "All the President's Men" in that regard.
An incredible, taught exploration of the power of investigative journalism with an impeccable ensemble cast. Spotlight is so effective in using the dire truth of the Catholic Church scandal that there is no need to sensationalize, creating an earnest trust with the viewer like good journalism should.

PS probably don't buy snacks because I actually lost my appetite and that has never happened to me.
So far my favorite movie of the year.  So far...
The story is important; the acting is marvelous.  This is one of the best ever.
Should have been so much better. Ruffallo tries way too hard and the plodding editing/morality kills what may have been otherwise electricity. This also keeps it from really building to a head. Tucci wins.
One of the best films I've seen in a long time.  Gripping from the very start, I was absorbed until the very end.  The acting is superb and real.  Everything about the movie is understated, but it never loses its intensity.  My stomach was tied in knots during the entirety of the film. The lead actors were great, but I was really impressed by some of the smaller roles - Stanley Tucci, Billy Crudup, and two of the actors who played the victims. I feel inspired to do some research on the real life events.
It's been a long time since I've seen a movie that inspired me to take action and do SOMETHING about the problem.  I still don't know how I will help, but I know this movie is not the end for me.  Thank you goes out to the cast and crew for making a difference in someone's life today!  The best movie I've seen this year!
There are so many things that I love about this film.The directing for this film is the best I've seen this decade. Hands down Tom McCarthy should win best director because this film could had been bad. The way he directed this film made it powerful. It made the movie very interesting. This is a movie where the characters are either sitting down most of the time. He made every single scene entertaining. Even the scenes where all the characters are in the newsroom sitting down talking was entertaining. I am now a huge fan of McCarthy. I am so touch by this film. It had so many powerful quotes that might make you sit back and think. "It could've been you, it could've been me, it could've been any of us." I love this quote from the film because it's so true.  This is a story that people are afraid to know.  I am looking forward to all of his work.
Excellent.  This is one of the best movies I've seen in a while, and should be a serious contender for Best Picture, in my opinion.
Every Wednesday "The Cinema Arts Theater", a nearby movie theater, offers seniors over 65 entrance to any movie for $5. Though low budget & completely independent (it was started by 2 retired Foreign Service Officers in the 1980s) the theater has a surprisingly strong line-up of movie choices.  This week they are showing 8 movies, including "Spotlight", "Room",  "Bridge of Spies", Brooklyn", "Specter", "Suffragate", that "Hunger Games" flick and a few others.  

Anyhow I went to the 2:30PM showing of "Spotlight" because a) it received a 98% from critics and 96% from audiences on the Rotten Tomatoes" 'Tomato-meter' ... and b) because I was raised in Catholic schools. Apparently many other seniors in our area had gotten the word that it was/is a good movie because about half of the seats in the theater were filled with seniors like myself.  

I attend maybe 5 movies a year at this theater during 'seniors' day', but this was the first time that the audience spontaneously clapped and cheered at the conclusion of the film.  The movie is riveting.  Like "All the President's Men", it tells the true story of a newspaper's investigative reporting of a major scandal.  But unlike "All the  President's Men",  I did not know in advance the ending or "the rest of the story".   [I also did not know that Ben Bradley was at the Boston Globe in 2001 supervising the development of this story as he had done at the Washington Post during the Watergate scandal that brought down Nixon.]  

"Spotlight" was the name of the little, 4 person investigative unit at the Boston Globe that broke the story of rampant, criminal sexual abuse of minors by Boston area priests ... and, more importantly, the criminal cover up of the abuse by the Catholic Church and Boston city government authorities.  The casting, acting, direction, editing, etc. were all excellent.  I didn't even notice the music, but that suggests it didn't get in the way of the intense story which is the center of the film.  A few times I caught myself tensed up, and I had to remind myself to breath.

For me the most shocking revelation came after the film concluded, and the screen was filled with a written narrative that explained what happened after the Boston Globe published it's revelations.

I highly recommend it, especially for anyone raised as a Catholic.
If you want to see an exquisitely done homage to real life heroes, this is your film.
Well written and confidently directed with great performances from a great cast. An important film that is a must see.
Simple, well done, well acted. Complete.
The revelations made known in this true story about the cover-up of child abuse by priests is an amazing tribute to the victims. The archdiocese should be ashamed of their sins.
This movie is a must-see example. Some religious people can get offended but still it is an thoughtful insight of what happens at the Catholic Church.
This was a very eye opening amazingly fasted movie, it is atrocious what was done and that people let this go on I am glad this movie came out, I am bummed it did not go to every theater. This is more like a documentary and I was the youngest person in the theater which is also a shame but I liked it ! Go see this for an eye opening experience on church
Hello Potential Best Picture Winner,

Bruce Wayne leads and Bruce Banner researches. Victor Creed looks like an animal and stares pensively. What happened to pushing the envelope?

The film Spotlight spotlights the Spotlight team, famous for spotting the truth and shedding light on the abuse of the Catholic Church. The team pursues spots of potential revelation, in light of cover-ups within the local Catholic Archdiocese. The team is light and quick on their feet, and they work well as a team, sort of like spotters at a gym full of lights. You may think that was a bad analogy, but I thought it was spot-on.

"You can't handle the truth!"
- Quote from another movie said by a famous person.


Sincerely,
I do not know.
i.ytimg.com/vi/Fjl8D6f0dBI/maxresdefault.jpg
This is the best movie I have seen in a long time.  Every once in a while a movie comes along that is as important in it's message as it is in its cinematic value. This is one of those movies. It's well done, well acted and  avery important movie because it sheds light on a serious problem that wiil be resolved only with acceptance that it exists along with the knowledge that we can be heard..
This movie had me at the edge of my seat.  I was surprised that it would be so good.  The acting by all was fabulous. Spotlight showed the complexity to a story we all know about from the perifery.  Digging into the
The terrific "Spotlight" takes a sober, measured approach to its storytelling, and it's all the more powerful for it.
On track for this year's Best Picture Oscar......
Powerful.  Disturbing.  Emotional.  One of the best films of the year.
Saw it in the theater last night -- best thing I've ever seen.
Fascinating journalistic procedural with a well picked cast.  But the most powerful acting comes from the actors chosen to play the victims of childhood abuse: ALL excel from beginning to end.
Did you know the Catholic Church has been complicit in thousands of sexual abuse scandals?  If somehow that's news to you, then the movie might be riveting, but I can't help but feel the drama is supposed to come from the revelation of information that's been common knowledge for over a decade.  I feel like a dunce any time a movie seems to get unanimous rave reviews while I remain unaffected, but I'm just not sure how this was supposed to be interesting.  Despite what almost everyone says, the acting is not electrifying; it is, like everything else in this movie, simply competent and functional. (Rachel McAdams's delivery seems particularly forced.)  The standout, however, is Liev Schreiber, who paradoxically generates the most interest and charisma through a character who essentially has no personality.
But where was the drama in this movie?  The Spotlight team makes a lot of phone calls, conducts a lot of interviews, and looks over a lot of documents.  That's the movie.  There's no arc.  As it unspools, you find that the sexual abuse scandal is massive and involves more and more people, but again, we already knew that.  There isn't any story telling to speak of, just procedural what-have-you to reach a foregone conclusion.
So if your idea of a taught thriller consists of characters talking to other characters whose identity and/or importance isn't really described; or if you like seeing people read documents, the contents and importance of which aren't fully explained; or if you're in the mood to see characters tackle a big problem that honestly doesn't really affect their welfare and puts very little at stake...then for you, this may be Best Picture 2016.
Peliculón. 

En nota relacionada: Me hizo reflexionar sobre los reportes acerca de "la casa blanca" y su trabajo periodistico.
A film that the Academy Awards will love.
Documentary almost. Focus on the journalists. Trying to make a case for investigative reporting. No real surprises. No real joy.
Outstanding True Story......But Very Sad !
Best Picture Academy Award - Possibly
Compelling. Brilliant acting. A must-see and a shoe-in for many Oscars.
There's nothing especially groundbreaking here: investigative journalists uncover a big story. Imagine "All The President's Men" with abusive priests. But the ensemble's simply fantastic, and McCarthy lets them take center stage while the audience investigates alongside them. The film's rhythm is just like research/writing: small leads, longer convos, bigger patterns and the sudden connecting of dots. The story becomes so much more than the abuse scandal we already knew about. It is an affecting  revelation...for the characters and the audience.
Spotlight is an incredibly riveting true story about the shocking events involving the Catholic Church that transpired in Boston, and around the globe. Spotlight is a thriller that benefits from a fantastic ensemble cast. Journalism is the main focus of the film and the different character arcs are extremely well depicted. Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, and Mark Ruffalo all give magnetic performances. The superb screenplay plays to the actors' strengths, as the dialogue is powerful and offers great exposition. On the whole, Spotlight is one of the best films of 2015.
Not since "All the Presidents Men" have I been more riveted by a movie about the dedication and tenacity of reporters getting to the truth.
Best movie on investigative journalism since All The Presidents Men. I especially liked how they didn't sugarcoat journalism - making reporters and editors appear high and mighty. It's a great story not only about the horrific treatment of children but also how the journalistic media failed in its responsibility.
Might be a perfect film!
Sadly true.  Wish they had put an update on where Cardinal Law is now in light of Pope Francis' appointment.
The cast was strong enough to keep it interesting, but nothing really happened that was worth getting really caring about. Probably just Oscar bait because it's about a religious scandal.
"Spotlight" is a compelling, thoughtful look at the Catholic Church's attempt to cover-up its clergymen's molesting of children back in the early 2000's. A group of Boston Globe reporters, led by Michael Keaton, try to get to the bottom of the cover-up. What ensues is a provocative but admittedly fascinating look at how the molestation plague was endemic to the entire Catholic Church from the top-down. The film manages to address this sensitive subject matter without resorting to heavy-handed directing or confirmation bias, The film is a bit slanted against the Church but does so in a way that maintains journalistic integrity and sticks to the facts, not speculation. It is also interesting to see how a story is put together and how sometimes pervasive subject matter has to come to the fore to keep the masses informed. A smart look at the ethics of journalism and sure to turn heads come Oscar time ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A-
stellar cast realistically portrayed process of uncovering abuse.  Had me on the edge of my seat even though I knew the ending.
True story ...lots to learn.
I really liked this movie. Makes you wonder what else the country may be covering up.
Gosh, another movie where I had trouble staying awake, because I saw the 10pm show.  It was a good film, with great acting--5 or 6 big names here, all on point.  But it's like watching 60 minutes sort of.  Interesting, and extremely important subject matter,  I predict Oscar nominations for Tucci and perhaps Ruffalo possibly.  I recommend it over Brooklyn or Bridge of Spies.
Spotlight has a very shocking and powerful story that it is told with a handful of great performances and a very clear direction that leads to a dramatic real life-based and jaw dropping story
Wouldn't be surprised if I saw this movie or its actors nominated for an Oscar.
Great cast very interesting but I think they should have put a little more thrill in the movie but overall a good film
Excellent movie...well acted. well written
Without a doubt the best movie I've seen so far this year!!
Shows how difficult investigative journalism can be.
A very powerful movie.  If I were Catholic, it would make me examine my entire belief structure, and I think the church would lose.  I was amazed at HOW corrupt Catholic leadership is and was.
Best movie I've seen all year. Star power and story are insanely unmatchable. Watch this movie!
One of the most compelling, dramatic, at times laugh out loud funny, entirely human and well balanced movies I have seen in a very long time. It takes an extremely complicated piece of world (and, in particular, Boston) history and condenses without over-simplifying or losing the complexity and nuance of the events. This beautifully crafted approach to the source material combined with stellar performances from Keaton, McAdams and especially Ruffalo make this an instant Best Picture candidate and a can't miss flick for fans of history, compelling storytelling and fantastic acting. As someone who very clearly remembers these events unfolding, I can't see this movie being made better than it has.
Great, fast paced investigative drama.  This movie will make you regret the current state of investigative journalism and demonstrated its importance. This movie also highlights the cultural amnesia we have, given the remaining popularity of the Catholic Church.  I was raised Catholic, and I will never step in a Catholic Church again.
As a fully recovered Catholic, I have almost no interest in that faith....but I am very inspired about transparency and justice.  Excellent movie. Excellent investigative journalism. May there by ever more truth tellers. The only unfortunate thing is that the predators and those who covered for them are not in jail.
If you've been the victim of abuse, prepare yourself.  A gripping story with masterful performances from all, especially Tucci.
It was almost everything I love about movies like this, a riveting and enlightening way to present the story of what happened, to be educated about an important historical event that I may have known about from the news but did not know the full story.  I left off a star because I felt after the long build up and crescendo to the big moment of finally putting the story out - I was left wondering where the climax was - the ending seemed rather chopped off. They released the story, went into the office to discover calls ringing off the hook, and then the movie was over and the lights came up.  Maybe a little more of the explosive reaction of the public and the way the news hit everyone (possibly the church's reaction too?), rather than just phones ringing?  I felt like it was an ending more reliant on the audience supplying their own climax by recalling each in our own minds and emotions the way we remember the news exploding on the scene at the time, rather than actually depicting it.   There was a lot more intensity, drama and emotion displayed in the reporters and others on their way to discovering and producing the expose than when they finally unleashed it.
This film is one of the truly important ones to come along in 2015. It reveals a shameful secret of the Catholic Church; not so much in the acts themselves (that are bad enough) but in the institutional cover-up by the hierarchy that good Catholics expect to guarantee the church's integrity. At the same time, it is a story of the tenacity of a major US Newspaper, the Boston Globe. In largely Catholic Boston, taking on the Catholic church is no mean task, but the paper does so. All of the performances are done with dedication and care--not with the over-acting that some of the actors have portrayed in other films. One of the truly good films of 2015.
Handling its extremely sensitive subject matter with a care not known to typical Hollywood sensationalism, "Spotlight" maintains its integrity despite the sell of its star studded cast. It is a thriller that relies on a combination of superb acting and screenwriting instead of a fast-paced score and editing tricks. As a result, it is captivating throughout, shining a light on a true human tragedy that, as the film knows, will likely continue to be overlooked as long as someone is willing to overlook it.
Absorbing and well-acted drama that deals with an important topic with intelligence. Spotlight is sure to be a heavy awards contender in the acting and Best Picture categories. This is smart and highly engaging filmmaking if a bit anti-climactic. Rating: 84
Great acting. Amazing story.
A well written movie with a Boston style touch on every scene.
True story journalistic thriller ( that resembles "All the Presidents Men" ) about how vociferously the Catholic church protected its pedophile priests for many decades. How the church covered it up which allowed the worst pedophiles in the church to abuse hundreds of kids each. The film is set in Boston as a small pool of reporters begin to unravel the truth. Unraveling it was like getting to the bottom of Watergate. At first they think its just an isolated incident. Then, they are shocked to find out it may be 13 priests in Boston alone. Then, they are told it may be 90 priests in Boston. They do their work and quickly discover evidence of 87 priests. And, that it is not just Boston but all over the world.
Man talk about real stuff! This is no joke and a real deal problem that folks are oblivious too or just plain donâ??t want to admit exists as big as it does especially if itâ??s someone they know or respect.

Spotlight is a special team at the Boston Globe that looks into stories in a more in depth and detailed manner. A story rises to the surface about a priest who was molesting young boys. As they look into it they find that there is more to it than just one priest and that itâ??s multiple that have been covered up by the Catholic church in Boston alone for over a decade. Throughout the process of the investigation they uncover that it spans past Boston and into various different places around the world including the Vatican.

First off I have to give big props to the actors who played their parts as well as they did for this. The movie was very well acted and much care was taken to tell this story of shameful, frowned upon acts. Every move, word and expression was believable and at times heartfelt. The movie was very well paced, and the shots were also poignant as well as they showed you different Catholic Churches in different shots. It was a good length as well and really kept your attention because you actually had a reason to care about the story and the individuals therein. It is such a sad shame that such acts happen and an even bigger shame that when things like these are found they often become hidden by those with theÂ wherewithal to do something about it or kept secret from those who can. One thing that is a major constant in Hollywood as they deliver stories about The Church is that 98% of the time it is revolved around the Catholic Church. When they deal with demons, spirits, other worldly things, pedophilia or just church in general they go to their safe topic ofÂ Catholicism. They hardly ever show any other kind of church. You hardly ever see the ones that operate with the Apostolic Anointing, ones that are Charismatic and show leading by the Holy Spirit. You may see ones that are just generic looking butÂ Catholicism is their bread and butter. Now every style of church has their issues but this movie shows you something that is widely known or has been speculated in Catholic churches for years and that is pedophilia through homosexuality. The movie gives you a real look at how things can be covered up and dismissed by such individuals involved and will keep moving knowing that the problem exists. It showed you the real heart and innocence of some of these men who were very impressionable young boys whom were taken advantage of by men they respected. It showed you that these boys looked up to these men as if they were God himself and are overwhelmed with a sense of belonging or feeling of being special when they are noticed by one of them. This is also a common act of endearment from children to their parents. As the saying goes, â??parents are God in the eyes of a childâ??. It touched on the fact that more focus is placed on the men or women in position at the church instead on God himself. I like how Stanley Tucciâ??s character put it when he was asked why he stopped going to church. He said, â??the church is a building filled with men, my faith is in the Eternal, I like to differentiate between the twoâ??. This like I said touched on the fact that not enough men in position are pointing the focus away from themselves and should be putting it into faith in their Heavenly Father as all whom under this belief system must do in order to truly live it out. The relationship aspect is the key point and if focus isnâ??t shifted not just once but often toward that versus the man or woman themselves, idolatry starts. Religiosity, garments and traditions have been a major part in Catholicism like none other. Â It was also clearly shown that their is and always has been a major attack on boys through pedophilia through homosexuality. These men who were God fearing boys had aspirations to grow up and be a man like the one they see, start a family, be successful, be respected and to have confidence in themselves to also help others. Instead these boys through theseÂ heinous acts are growing up being unsure of themselves, placing their anger at God, contemplating suicide, turning toÂ alcohol and even reciprocating the same thing that was done to them. It is no wonder why homosexuality and pedophilia is often seen as synonymous. The outcome of this movie was very fitting and satisfying to a degree. Just because this story was published in a Boston newspaper that can be read by hundreds or thousands in the city, doesnâ??t in reality stop it completely from actually happening again. It received publicity around the world and also showed the various different places around the globe that had accounts of such things happening now or happened once upon a time. I even saw my home town.

Great movie for all to see at some point in their life
Great reporting, acting and script. A must see.
Great movie.  Finally the truth comes out.
Powerful movie about a currupt institution.
as of now this one gets my vote for best film of the year. should get Mark Ruffalo the best actor nomination. very well directed great job casting. very well acted all the way down  to single liners. don't miss this one while it's in the theaters. Go see it.
Fine docudrama, excellently cast and acted (although quite male heavy). Reminded me of Woodward and Bernstein. Definitely one of the best films of this year!
November 20, 2015

One of the most brutally effective films I've seen is the 2006 documentary, "Deliver Us From Evil," Amy Berg's haunting and infuriating examination of a Catholic priest who admitted, somewhat casually, to molesting and raping over 20 children. However, it wasn't simply a blatant condemnation of its primary subject, Father Oliver O'Grady; it sought to explore why so many Catholic priests resort to such behavior and the potential psychology behind their motivations. It also provided a history of the Catholic Church and its role in trying to conceal its priests' transgressions, all while informing us of the victims' struggle to find peace years after they were violated. "Deliver Us From Evil" was so striking I had to watch it in stages, which I suppose is a testament to its efficacy.

Now comes "Spotlight," the sort of Hollywood version of "Deliver Us From Evil" that chronicles the Boston Globe's efforts to uncover the Catholic Church's deliberate cover-up of incidences like Father O'Grady's, specifically those within the Boston Archdiocese. It's a completely different narrative compared to "Deliver Us From Evil," but both films share the same intention: to bring to light a horrifying truth and scandal that was, sadly, systemic and went on for decades with far-reaching, traumatizing effects. One might say "Spotlight" makes some of the subject matter of "Deliver Us From Evil" more accessible to general audiences.

But subject matter aside, and despite it being "based on actual events," "Spotlight" is also, at its base, a thoughtful, intelligent and well-made drama. We wish it wasn't based on real events, but if any film is going to inform us about them, this is an entertaining way to do it, if "entertaining" should even be used in this context.

The film centers on the investigative team known as "Spotlight" at the Boston Globe, which, in 2001 when the film takes place, only had four staff members: Robby Robinson (Michael Keaton), Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James). They're all nervous because the Globe has just hired a new editor, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber), who's Jewish, not from Boston originally, and not really into baseball. These are three preemptive strikes against him because, after all, this is Boston, a prideful town ruled by Roman Catholics and die-hard Red Sox fans (although, to be fair, Baron is trying to get a feel for the city by reading "The Curse of the Bambino"). But it's not Baron's religion or hobbies that make the Spotlight team uneasy; they're worried he might inflict the same layoffs he did at his former paper in Miami.

So Robby takes Baron seriously when he suggests Spotlight should follow up on an article written by one of their fellow columnists, about a Catholic priest who molested kids in several different parishes. However, Baron stresses that neither the priest nor his victims should be the story. Rather, it should focus on the fact the church knew about it but still didn't take any action to stop it, instead using its social, religious and financial leverage to cover it up, including hiring lawyers to settle with the victims outside of court in exchange for their silence; listing the accused priests as being on "sick leave" in the Catholic directories (this way, they wouldn't be found); and ensuring documents that prove the priests' wrongdoings, such as letters from the victims and their parents, are made unavailable to the public. Baron tells Robby the story is revealing this high-level, intricate "system" the Church has in place and that it's been in operation for decades, all without its parishioners, or the general public, privy to it.

And so, over the course of the next year, amidst other major news events like 9/11, the Spotlight team works tirelessly to connect all the dots and threads behind this conspiracy, gaining a newfound perspective of just how much power and influence the Catholic Church wields, and not just in Boston, but all over the world.

For the most part, "Spotlight" unravels like most investigative thrillers and its tactics aren't anything we haven't seen before, but this traditional approach by director Tom McCarthy works well because it allows us to pay close attention as events unfold and the characters speak key dialogue. His and Josh Singer's screenplay finds a good balance of plot and substance and we really come to empathize with the Spotlight team as they research and orchestrate their story. Just as they do, we grow frustrated by all the bureaucratic and logistical hurdles and we recognize the emotional and moral dilemmas the story poses, especially since the investigators are all Catholics themselves. 

There's also a fair amount of tension as pressure mounts on Spotlight to break the story first. These moments are followed by deep, personal reflections as each staff member considers his and her own devoutness and longstanding history with the church. The underlying question they all ask is, why hasn't anyone done anything about this? (Robby's transformation is particularly hard-hitting because he learns this story was brought to him years ago but he buried it in the metro section.)

Because "Deliver Us From Evil" was so compelling and draining, I actually hold it in higher regard than "Spotlight." Berg's film certainly wasn't pleasant viewing but it was, I feel, essential and I think watching it first will make "Spotlight" seem like a reward and an earned break from material that's already hard to accept. But even if I hadn't seen the documentary prior, I would still recognize the virtues of McCarthy's narrative. It gives us a real sense of what Spotlight had to do to reveal the truth. The direction is sharp, the storytelling is rhythmic and flows easily, and the performances all hit a genuine note. An added bonus is one need not watch "Spotlight" in stages, and although that might not make it as indelible as "Deliver Us From Evil," it's still a film that will have viewers talking about it long after they leave the theater.
Performances are all strong, dialog is sharp, and script excellently handles delicate subject matter.  Films like this are why I love movies.
Love this film. 
So much exciting and depth in just a desk job and story
Procedural films are hard to do well anymore. We've seen this type of film a million times. But there's something captivating about this newsroom and the story they are fighting to tell. Knowing all of this was real and recent just adds to the mystique in trying to understand how something so awful could be allowed to happen. But for the film, it's well done, well paced, well written and well acted. A few heavy handed moments, but mostly just a beautiful lesson in how a great ensemble can weave together a terrific multi-layered story. Expect that this will be near the top of all the discussions around Best Picture as we near the finish line this year.
Best screenplay since "All the Presidents Men".  Excellent movie all around.  Definite Oscar contender!
To call it the best film on journalism since Al The President's Men would be true but selling it a bit short.  It is much more than.  There is plenty of drama and even suspense in the expertly directed and skillfully acted film and in the end emotional .  Mark Ruffulo, Rachel McAdams, Live Shrieber and Michael Keaton(whom I was never very fond of but am growing to like now).  ONe of the years best.
Went to see this in the theater and overall thought it was very well done. The movie was a bit slower than I would have liked which made it a better movie to see at home in my opinion. However, the plot and character development were very well thought out and the acting was superb. I was personally expecting there to be a little more about the church's response to the scandal. I can't imagine they just stood by and took it while this groundbreaking story developed. Such a great cast and would highly recommend seeing this one!
If you're not a journalist, I implore you to see "Spotlight," the movie about the Boston Globe's uncovering of the Catholic Church abuse scandal. (I assume all the journalists are already on it.) For one, it's just an excellent movie. But more importantly, it shows how great journalism is done. It's not flashy or glamorous; it's hard work. It's making phone calls and knocking on doors and tracking down information and poring over records. This isn't something aggregation news sites or bloggers are going to do. You're not going to get it from sources' tweets. It takes time and resources -- something fewer and fewer news media organizations are willing to invest in. And that's troubling for all of us because people and institutions who are allowed to operate in darkness (even those as venerated and trusted as the Catholic Church) are likely to abuse their power, sooner or later. Those abuses can cost anything from taxpayers' money to people's lives. We need good journalism to help keep officials, institutions and governments accountable. This movie helps show how that's done and why it's so important for us to support such journalism.
Amazing acting from everyone. The experience of watching this movie is like being punched in the gut repeatedly. But it's necessary. I hope it gets the Oscar because it's such an important story. I don't know that anything could really be spoiled for this movie, but the most important message to me is about how easy it is as a society to instinctively defend something that has both good and bad elements. It's okay to attack the bad parts--hell, it's our moral duty to go after the bad parts, as difficult as that is.
This is a great movie! It's well acted, moves at a good pace, yet still feels real.
Great movie, this needs to be seen by a lot of people so studios keep making high quality stuff like this. We get enough blow-em up stuff, this is old-fashioned good movie making. It deals with a touchy subject, but it was really well done.
Investigative Journalism at its finest, portrayed by the finest collaborators of story story-telling. 

(If it's too sensitive a subject for you, you should at the very least Wikipedia the movie &/or the Boston scandal & know the truth about the Catholic Church by-and-large.)
Best American Film so far this year!
A must see movie...could have just blamed the church for all of this, but instead makes us look deep at ourselves for the acts we allow by not speaking up.
It was a deceint movie! Not the best but good enough
The kind of movie that feels like you're reading the script. Which is to say - quite uncinematic, but forgivingly so. Solid performances, very subtle script. Keaton, McAdams, Ruffalo, that other dude, Stanley Tucci, John Slattery, even Live Schreiber, what an amazing cast. There's only like 2 showboaty Oscar bait scenes, which is pretty good. But goodness if the piano score wasn't consistently generic and unnecessary. Really sticks to the script and doesn't meander much. Refreshing to see something so un-visceral.
Another very prevalent film from this year. I have never been so angry in a movie before. (The Big Short is a very close second place to this on level of post movie anger). This is one of those films that everyone should see.
One of the most riveting, devastating, and powerful films of 2015, and by far the best film about reporting and journalism since 'All the President's Men'. Spotlight is filmmaking and storytelling at its finest; a landmark film driven by the top-notch cast's exceptional performances, Tom McCarthy's spot-on script and flawless direction, and a fighting spirit that refuses to be swallowed up by darkness. Now both 'Room' and 'Steve Jobs' have a strong competitor for Best Picture.
I loved this movie it kept me interested the whole time. it is so well written with great actors, it is the best movie of the year and should get an Oscar and golden globe win if it doesn't I would be extremely surprised
Amazingly this movie about people talking and researching and talking more is riveting.  And it's an important subject matter than is very well handled.
Fantastic movie-making about the dying art of journalisms...
Incredible story telling and acting. While the outcome is known the path to the truth was inspiring.
Excellent!! A must see. Great cast.
This movie was amazing, If you enjoy true stories and learning about events that have actually happened then the is a movie to see. It was so shocking how the events played out and it leaves you speechless. A very powerful movie!!
This movie was excellent. Very well written and cast.
SPOTLIGHT-2015(R)-Nov. 27.
BY:The Movie Guy.

Spotlight is the disturbing true story of one of the biggest cover-ups in U.S. history. The film opens in 2001, when allegations of child molestation by priests of the Catholic Church surface. A group of investigative reporters from The Boston Globe who collectively write in-depth stories for the "Spotlight" feature, begin investigating the abuse claims. When the team consisting of Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) & team leader Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) start asking some key questions they find that there are two distinct factions, those that are fighting to make the molestation known & find some justice for the victims such as lawyer for the victims, Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci) & those who are working to suppress any public acknowledgement such as lawyer Eric MacLish (Billy Crudup), who is quietly settling the cases out of court in cooperation with the Catholic Church. What also becomes too clear is the alarming duration & extent of the abuse & the church's full knowledge & its determined efforts to conceal the abuse & protect the offending priests. Director Tom McCarthy co-wrote the screenplay with Josh Singer, together they have exposed a dismal & terrible truth about the power of the Catholic Church to manipulate government, law & the faithful for its own purposes. The cast also features Liev Schreiber as The Boston Globe's new editor-in-chief Marty Baron, John Slattery as Ben Bradlee Jr., the Globe's former editor, & Richard Jenkins as Richard Sipe, a former priest turn psychotherapist who provides vital information to aid the investigation. The performances from this star-studded cast were remarkable. Three actors gave Oscar-worthy performances; Michael Keaton is riveting in the intensity of his dogged pursuits, Mark Ruffalo fully conveys the experience of the wrenching emotions that the reporters experience as they uncover the full extent & virtual institutionalization of the molestation. And as Mitchell Garabedian, Stanley Tucci illustrates that there are compassionate lawyers who care about the victims & will fight for them. Despite the uncomfortable subject matter, this is a film that everyone should see. CAN'T MISS FILM OF THE YEAR.
There was an easy way they could have told this story, all this went on and the Church did nothing. It's simple, but a story we already knew. Spotlight, however, explored the real story. Yes, the church knew, but so did half the town of Boston, including the Globe itself and the fact that Spotlight hit all those angles, including the self-incriminating ones, took this movie to another level.
Excellent and still shocking even over 10 years after the original news broke.
This film was even better & more engrossing than I thought it would be. Cast is great, as is the way the story unfolds, devt of characters & adjacent story-lines. HIGHLY recommend!
One of the most heartwrenching, and brilliant films about investigative journalism ever made, and the single best film I've watched all year. The church will be pissed, but they brought this masterpiece upon themselves the second they decided to mess with children. Powerful.
FANTASTICALLY REWARDING FILM, I'M RECOMMENDING IT TO EVERYONE...! ONE OF THE BEST FILMS EVER MADE
I kind of feel this movie is over hyped. Do not get me wrong,its still a very good film, but I didn't enjoy it as much as others. I think the subject matter is what is propelling this film. The cast was great, especially Mark Ruffalo. The writing is great, there isn't much to find wrong with it. My only thing is it felt like a television special movie. The way scene changes all had the same music in them and just the way it was shot. It doesn't effect my grade too awful much though as it still good. I just wasn't as entrapped with it as others
Makes me never want to step foot in a Catholic Church again
reveals very little that's new if you were already familiar with the story. well made, well acted but the aura of greatness surrounding the film is unwarranted
Probably the best film of the year.  Acting was all around fabulous, especially Mark Ruffalo.
Saw this movie in the theater and could tell just by the story before I saw it that it was going to be Oscar worthy. But the audience sleeps on.....
An interesting true story with terrific acting and doesn't really go off into ridiculous subplots either. A very well done movie. Should be an Oscar contender.
What an awesome movie! Unbelievable story and wonderful acting. I can see a future Oscar or two upcoming for this one..
An earnest, efficient, and always engrossing drama involving the investigation of the priest sex abuse scandal in the Catholic Church by the Boston Globe. (The investigative reporters won the Pulitzer Prize for their story.) Written by Thomas McCarthy and Josh Singer and directed by McCarthy, it's a superb presentation of journalism but inadequate as drama. As in "All the President's Men," there is a lot of information amassed involving phone calls, interviews, conferences, and fact checking that draws us into the process, but in a way that sacrifices characterization and suspense. It lacks the emotional and moral complexity of the documentary "Deliver Us From Evil," which dramatized the plight of the victims and their families affected by a predatory priest. By minimizing these personal stories, the overall emotional impact is muted. McCarthy's filmmaking is methodical and enervated, but he gets solid performances from an impressive cast. With Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, and Billy Crudup. Won Oscars for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay (Josh Singer and Tom McCarthy).
WOW! This is a must see movie. The movie divulges the rotten secrets of this religious institution and eventually became a huge story.
Amazing real life thriller!!! I didn't want it to end! It illustrates what's been lost with the cutting of investigative journalism units within news outlets.
This is easily one of the best live action films of 2015. At the end of the year this movie will likely get a lot of Oscar attention, and it truly deserves it. Spotlight holds nothing back, features an ensemble of amazing performances, and tells a haunting true story. This story is recent enough that many people probably still remember, but old enough that many people will probably find it educational.
    Perhaps the film's greatest strength is it's story, which is incredibly dense with information. Not to spoil the film, but to give context the film is about a large scandal involving the Boston Catholic Priests in 2001. The story is so dense that it would have been easy to hold back information or gloss over plot elements, but somehow the filmmakers behind this film were able to fit it all into the film, in just over 2 hours. The film is unapologetically real, despite the occasional moments of theatricality, which all films have.
    The entire cast is magnificent in this film, lead by Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton. Both of which will probably receive Oscar nominations for back-to-back years. In a film that relies on a slow-burn approach, with a more emotional grip on the audience, the acting was paramount, and the entire cast delivered. It's most impressive, because they are able to every moment and make it feel important through their portrayals. These performances also help to make the characters feel more real, and relatable.
    The performances support one other major strength of the film, which is the haunting tone of the film. The film is scary in an very real way, as the film showcases that even in large hubs with millions of people, massive secrets can be hidden. At a time with drones, and widespread public mistrust it makes the film even scarier. It's the haunting story and tone that helps elevate the acting, to form a truly great film.
    In the end the film tells a relevant story that every american should know, without compromising its source material. Spotlight is a film so good that even the churches it condemned had to admit that it was great. The film will likely receive a lot of award recognition, and rightfully so, as it stands as one of the best movies of 2015. It's a haunting film that tells a story so compelling and unbelievable it becomes a must see film.
Good movieð~­ð~­ð~­ð~­ð~­ð'ð'ð'ð'ð'?ð'?ð'?ð'?ð~ð~ð~ð~ð~ð(TM)ð(TM)ð(TM)ð(TM)ð(TM)ð(TM)?ð(TM)?ð~~ð(TM)?ð~~
A deeply important, revelatory viewing experience, which infuses its viewers with empathy, anger, and concern. All well justified, too.
Intelligently written, nicely underplayed and unfussily directed true drama that gripped me and then made me very angry. Superb.
One of the most intriguing stories I have seen in a long time!! The star-studded cast all gave incredible performances.
Everything about this movie was great with the exception of the pacing. It worked for me, but I think people who don't know much about this scandal might find it too cerebral. It was interesting to see some of the Spotlight staff and other Globe staffers confront their own denial/collusion in sweeping the scandal into the closet. The emotion of the film felt genuine. Well written, well acted.
Compelling and entertaining.  Very well produced.  A must see.
Great performances all around.  Nothing groundbreaking about it but as well made as any investigative journalism/ripped from the headlines movie you'll ever see.
Riveting. Heartbreaking. Enraging. It's always difficult to say I enjoyed a movie with so troubling a subject matter, but the performances were stellar, thus I will say I enjoyed watching these pros tell a well-crafted story. I'd definitely recommend Spotlight.
Great story and great performances but it is very slow moving and never picks up pace. It's a film you watch out of curiosity and it's not bad but you'd probably never watch it again.
Based on the true story, SPOTLIGHT is an ensemble at its best. Just like All The Presidents Men and The Paper, this movie is about journalists seeking the truth of something much bigger. The film is a straight-laced movie. There is nothing fancy about its directing or dialogue. It is almost watching a procedural episode. It feels like we are watching a real newspaper work in their normal environment. The cast is all-around amazing and picking just one performance that stood out would be unfair to the talent cast. This is a film that only needs the facts of what really happened to make every minute compelling movie watching.

Grade: A
So good and so sobering.
Part Zodiac, part All the President's Men. This is the next great riveting investigative thriller that will give you a new outlook on an institution that we  accept without reason.
Such a solid film that leaves you talking forever afterwards.  Michael Keaton puts on another Oscar worthy performance.
What do you know? It's a simple question that is asked nonchalantly in the beginning of the film, but a question that holds heavy over us as we begin to question who knows what. In 2001, the Boston Globe began a piece on the countless uncovered molestation cases within the local Catholic Archdiocese. Using the papers Spotlight investigative team, the Globe would go on to expose and reveal the immense corruption that riddled the churches, rocking the foundation of the entire Catholic community. Heading the Spotlight team is Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), who with fellow journalists Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy Robinson) begin unfolding the layers of sexual abuse that have gone ignored and unheeded for almost thirty years. Director Tom McCarthy (The Station Agent) creates a meditative film with dark roots that builds up a steady pulse, knowing when to pace itself as to keep from exhausting its subject matter. The offices of the Boston Globe lay thick with a soft, pastel hue that harkens a commonality within the paper, prominently citing the latest Red Sox game with no real focus on journalistic content. It's a view that runs parallel to the Catholic Churches flippant behavior, tossing aside anything paramount that might disrupt the nature of things. Howard Shore (A History of Violence) works to emphasize the immediacy within each scene, as he creates what becomes background noise; it's a score that glides rather than soars, which is exactly what our focus needs. We witness what is only important to the story, to what's being investigated as we follow in front of our journalists; when they move the story we move. Unwrapping each layer of the investigation brings a different shade to the Spotlight team, with the sympathetic core stemming from Mark Ruffalo's Mike, who presses matters with an urgent and motivated hand that stands out amongst saltine performances from the rest of the Spotlight team. Ruffalo makes Mike his own, embodying a demeanor and emotion that helps shed light into the heart of the scandals while fidgeting and insisting his way around the city. There's a sense of flaccidness that permeates within the remaining Spotlight team, as findings are read and reports are exclaimed, though the only sense is urgency and necessity. The pace is urgent thanks in part to Tom McArdle (Station Agent), who never quite rests on a scene too long before cutting to the streets, then back to the office. It's an arrangement that spotlights the necessity of bringing this scandal to light, but along the way refuses to shine much focus on the grief, a choice that is both mindful of its perpetrators yet neglectful of its victims. Spotlight is a small film posturing as something bigger, highlighting a momentous period in journalism and the Catholic community that can't quite reach the pinnacle of cinematic storytelling, leaving us knowing a lot yet feeling little.
Pretty much perfect -- This film details the importance of a free press while also exposing the dangers inherent in institutions that are ingratiated within communities.  The performances are all phenomenal, but especially Keaton, Ruffalo, and Schreiber.  Add in stellar writing and direction and you have a phenomenal film.
Best journalist film since "All the presidents men "
Angering story, great movie.  Mark Ruffalo leads a tremendous cast.
Gripping the entire time. Brilliantly acted. Had me still thinking about it hours after it was over. Not many movies can pull that off.
One of the best and most controversial films of the year
Utterly compelling docudrama about a group of Boston reporters investigating allegations of abuse within the Catholic Church and finding a much larger problem than anyone could have possibly predicted. Top flight performances from a first-rate cast (Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Stanley Tucci, John Slattery and Billy Crudup - bolstered by a terrific supporting cast of character actors) and a non-melodramatic yet affecting take on a pertinent issue add up to one of the better journalistic dramas in many years (and leagues ahead of Keaton's hackneyed 1994 film, "The Paper") and a serious award contender.
Love this movie. Great cast and glad the theme of this story was addressed.
A masterpiece. The writing, direction, acting. Everything about this movie was perfect. And Thomas McCarthy can use this to forget that horrible movie he made earlier this year,
Telling its story in a boldly unglamorous manner, "Spotlight" is a brilliant, infuriating depiction of real-life horrors.
Whoa.  People need to see this. Awesome acting, riveting story, doesn't feel like the 2+ hours that it is.
This is a profound movie.  As a psychologist I had lunch with a director of an agency that worked with pedophiles.  She said it was much more dangerous for my son to spend the weekend with a priest than anyone convicted of child pornogaphy.  This movie makes her point, plus indicts the fundamental self protective system that is the Catholic Church.  I feel like I am a German who just found out about the "camps."
Move over All the President's Men. There's a new movie holding the title of this best film about journalism ever made - Spotlight. One of the great ensemble casts of all time shows exactly how a newspaper reports a big story.
A stellar cast and excellent screenplay allow Spotlight to be a restrained but honest portrayal of its real-life heroes and the evil they uncovered.
Hand the Oscar to this ensemble. Written with clarity and directed with taut precision.  Try to pick the best performance--you'll continue to think about that for days after.
Magnificent. Important. Compelling.
The kind of good when no one moves for 10 minutes after it has ended, profoundly moved.
Where the cast shines brightest, however, are the moments in between when there is no center attention. Writer (and Director) Tom McCarthy and co-writer Josh Singer have each one of these reporters contributing to the investigation in some meaningful way-be it interviewing traumatized victims or unearthing sensitive documents there's an evident feeling of cooperation and balance. Though the same can't be said in terms of character, McAdams and d' Arcy James allotted significantly simpler means of development, the visits to the duo's respected arcs are kept brief-illustrating these moments as personal glimpses rather than forced sympathy. Schreiber embodied this aspect in his underused performance, where a couple of the film's handful of memorable scenes sees the Jewish editor opposite to the Cardinal, Schreiber donning a weary expression with a firm tone of voice to craft a motivated but emotionally suppressed performance that only began to bud.

FULL REVIEW HERE: www.borrowingtape.com/latest-reviews/spotlight-2015
Superb. Deserving of an Oscar or two.
One of the best films of the year. There will be Oscar Nominations. Oh yes, there will be Noms. Keaton and Mark Ruffalo are superb. Fantastic job by director Tom McCarthy, who also directed one of my favorites of all time, The Station Agent. If you were on the fence about seeing this one, JUMP OFF and go. excellent ensemble. highly impressive on all fronts
Compelling and engaging, "Spotlight" keeps you watching for its entirety. None of the acting performances will call for any Oscar nominations, but by all means, everyone did played their parts solidly. (A)
This film is deserving of every accolade it should receive during the upcoming awards season. A riveting, exceptionally acted and directed film. It is certainly one of the best films of the year, but also the most horrifying because it is the true story of the heinous acts that were perpetrated on the thousands, if not even more, young children.
It's not suspense, nor thriller. It's simply drama.
What a powerful movie about the sex scandal cover-up and the importance of an independent press.  A must see movie!!
This was a spectacular film and filmmaking. Tom McCarthy told a great story on a tough subject un earthing the Catholic Church scandal pre 9/11. 
The Spotlight team of Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Brian D'Arcy James worked extremely well together and gave some of if not the best acting this season.
It is something everyone should see
Excellent movie, with good actors and a well told story.
Exciting and worthwhile film. Kind of reminded me of All The President's Men.
SPOTLIGHT is a compelling movie about aggressive investigative journalism.  It chronicles the story of the newspaper reporters dedicated to revealing the many years of sexual abuse allegations against priests and the Catholic Church's efforts to cover it up.  The subject matter is incredibly bothersome but this film shows the dedication of a newspaper to get to the truth of the cover up.  A stellar cast all around but Mark Ruffalo is a standout in my opinion.  Everyone should see this.  It is important that you do.
It was good but not great. Brief but to the point is I wanted Al the President's Men with the subject twist obviously different but it was a well told story (Michael Keaton since Birdman is a top favorite actor of mine rekindling later in his career) and shocking to know how deep the secrecy was but I didn't feel like it was the best movie of the year or anything.
Very well done. Illuminating and important as well as entertaining.
I loved this film!  I hope this wins the best picture in the Oscars.
Well told shameful chapter in the Catholic Church's history ,  which they have sadly learnt nothing from.  Great performances and 5/5 for storytelling but, as a film, there was something lacking but perhaps certain true life stories are just not that filmic.
Great screen play, great acting by all, good cinematography. I would give it six stars.
Riveting story. Very well acted.
Terrific script. Terrific acting. Well flushed out plot. Overall very intelligent and respectful to the victims.
An important movie, should be required viewing for everyone who has ever supported the Catholic church.  More than 240 "priests" raped and / or sexually assaulted children, yet the Catholic church covered up the crimes at the highest level.  Marty Baron, past editor of The Boston Globe and now editor of the Washington Post, should have been awarded a Nobel Peace Price for forcing these truths into the "Spotlight."
Spotlight is the true-story behind the 2002 expose into the Catholic Church's cover-up of decades of sexual abuse and it is unflinching in its focus and animated by its outrage, which is the best and worst part of this awards-caliber movie. Writer/director Tom McCarthy (The Station Agent, Win Win) is a splendid curator of unlikely movie families, and with Spotlight he follows the titular investigative team (Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, Brian d'Arcy James) at the Boston Globe as they go about their jobs. That's really about it. Over the course of two tightly packed hours, we watch as the Spotlight team chases down leads, goes through archives, interview subjects and know hen to push harder and when to fall back, and day-by-day build their case to expose the massive corruption within the Church. It's invigorating material and worthy of the careful and sincere reverence that McCarthy and co-writer Josh Singer have afforded, though the flurry of names can be difficult to keep track of. However, that's about the extent of the movie. We don't really get to know any of the journalists on much of a personal level or as a character; they are defined by their tenacity and competence. We don't get much time for reflection or contemplation on the subject, especially its psychological impact on a majority Catholic city/staff, and the culpability of those within systems of power that chose to ignore rather than accept the monstrous truth. I don't need more "movie moments" or emotionally manipulative flashbacks, per se. With its nose to the grindstone, Spotlight is an affecting and absorbing news article given life but it feels less like a fully formed movie of its own. It's confidently directed, written, acted, and executed to perfection, and I feel like a cad even grumbling, but the ceiling for this movie could have been set higher had the filmmakers widened its focus.

Nate's Grade: B+
With pretty much every reviewer touting Spotlight as the best film of 2015 and a favourite to win the Best Picture Academy Award, I came in expecting much from Tom McCarthy's film. Is Spotlight a good film? Yes. Was it the best from 2015? No. Spotlight is a good film about journalists trying uncover the scandal of priests molesting children in Boston. And that is what the film is ALL about. It tackles its subject matter seriously and with no-frills. It took it too seriously that it did not draw me in emotionally. Also, there also were too many characters and I did not get a chance to get to know them completely. Nevertheless, Spotlight is still an important film to watch.
Spotlight: This is the true story of the Pulitzer Prize-winning team of investigative reporters at The Boston Globe that, in 2002, broke the child sex abuse scandal and decades long coverup by the Archdiocese of Boston - a scandal that quickly snowballed into a worldwide crisis for the Catholic Church. Featuring an outstanding ensemble cast, this is a smart, important story about the dangers of quiet complicity and the importance of good investigative journalism. The shocking revelations of the scope of the abuse and the extent of the cover up within the church more than make up for a story that does, at times, lag a wee bit. Still, one of the year's best. A
Very good film, the theme is excellent, the acting is very good and I give it a solid B+
i've never had to concentrate so hard to watch a movie. this crazy woman, sitting a couple seats away, kept laughing hysterically (this is not a comedy) or hmm-ing after every line of dialogue throughout the entire film. wtf?!
+"Spotlight" is a MUST SEE for many reasons first being that if you think you know everything, or just a lot, about the cover-up regarding the Catholic church and the pedophilia priests this film will show you that you don't. This is the best, if not better, newsroom movie since "All The President's Men" and shows investigative reporting as it is done and what it accomplishes. The cast is an evenly matched crew of actors in their prime and though all should get an Oscar for best ensemble, there is a scene with Mark Ruffalo that will make you hold your breath not wanting to miss a word.

Ruffalo is one member of a team consisting of  editor Michael Keaton who is the leader and Rachel McAdams along with Brian d'Arcy James who answer to managing editor John Slattery and they all have  a new Jewish, single, editor-in-chief  previously of New York and Miami Live Schreiber.

This is not a pounding on the desk, "STOP THE PRESSES" but an even moving film of reporters doing research, asking inquisitive, invasive questions. There are quiet but very effective scenes like that between Schreiber and Len Cariou as Cardinal Law or the reporters interviewing survivors such as Neil Huff , or Richard O'Rourke, a priest who molested children but saw nothing wrong with it and in both cases no histrionics. Whether it is lawyers like Jamey Sheridan and Stanley Tucci or members of the church like Paul Guulfoyle or supporting players such as Billy Crudup and Michael Cyril Creighton among others all deliver the goods.

Screenwriters Josh Singer and Tom McCarthy, the latter also directed, make a mystery and create suspense tale of a fairly well known Pulitzer Prize winning story that will get you deeply involved.

"Spotlight" is definitely one of the best movies of the year!
Well made and well acted. Even though it's a bit heavy on facts and low on drama. It was way too easy for them to investigate priests raping kids... and it was morally right to uncover it...so where's the drama or mystery?... This was more of a public service announcement than a film.
Should be an Oscar nominee for Best Picture.  Flirts with becoming disturbing in its telling of what was an extremely disturbing story at the time, but never crosses the line; instead, it realizes it can just rely on its great script and fine cast to make you think more than you'd like to.  Michael Keaton is the commanding presence that he was back in the '80's and early '90's by mixing the balance of emotion and even keel perfectly in his role.  None of the other roles are anything more than supporting cast, but A-listers like Rachel McAdams-among others-obviously saw what potential this movie had, and were willing to settle for shining in what roles they had.  Will keep your interest-even when it has to slow down to a crawl at times to fully tell the story.
Fab lupus and disturbing. Well acted by this formidable cast.
Spotlight is very insightful. It brings light to a frightening, cultural reality. I felt that it's an important story that needs to be told. The content of the movie was Best Picture worthy, although the individual performances were slightly lackluster.
Amazing movie. Great story and well put. Fantastic acting by all.
This is a great movie!  I have pretty much loved all of tom McCarthy's films so far, but this is his best.  It's is a truly important story brought together by an absolutely amazing cast, all of whom are excellent.  This is mandatory viewing in my opinion.
Enjoyed it, well done
What a huge revelation of how corrupt organized religion is. Not can be but is. It was very easy to replace "Catholic" for "Mormon" for me in regards to how a religious organization can run local law and government. It was gut wrenching to put it all together on how many children were victomized and lost their innocence, faith, humanity and their lives, in too many cases. It pissed me off but I am glad I watched it. i commend the journalists of The Boston Globe. Great film.
Clearly the best movie of the year - socially significant, great story backdrop, believable dialogue, and good acting.  The movie explores the scandal in the priesthood, how some people can rationalize anything, society's need to hush victims, and the horrid, permanent scars on the children.  Don't miss.
Storytelling at its finest and an ensemble that serves it justice.
Spotlight is an engrossing and riveting drama. It tells a amazing true story about these journalists. The film is brilliantly directed and written by Tom McCarthy. He brings a big passion to the film, if you know what I mean. The whole ensemble cast is amazing. Michael Keaton is great. So is Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams. They all come together to tell this story. The script is great in the film. The dialogue is very nice in this film. This film definitely deserved all the Oscar recognition it is getting. This is a very entertaining drama. The story of these priests is sickening. But it is a story that had to be told. This is a film that it definitely a must see. Don't miss this film.
Compelling drama that will not disappoint...
La mejor pelÃ­cula que he visto en el 2015.
A great and very important piece of filmmaking about a great piece of true professional journalism.
Not quite All the President's Men, but close. Captured the newspaper ethos and newsroom to a "T." Very realistic movie. Reminds us how quickly things have changed, how important journalism of this nature is, and how troubling the decline of resources/layoffs have been for civic life overall. Acting was good, if a little cliched. I would have liked a little more back story on some of the characters. They should have given more due to the Phoenix alternative paper reporter who actually broke the story. Realistic, good acting, keeps your attention,.
This movie was riveting. Each cast member dominated their scene. Best ensemble cast of the year.  A must see movie revolving around a very disturbing period in the Catholic church.
Favorite movie of 2015 so far. Super well done. So glad Michael Keaton is working again.
One of my new favorites of this year. For people in this area, when it hits the Naro GO SEE IT.
Great storytelling. Well cast and acted. Thoroughly enjoyable. Clearly one of the year's best.
A great movie about the craft and the impact  of good investigative reporting. This is a story not only about the crimes and the subsequent cover up by the Catholic Church, but also about the influence of the Church within our public institutions and communities.
if you want to understand the process by which four investigative reporters - each with his/her own expertise - function as a team working for the "Spotlight" unit of The Boston Globe's newspaper in 2001, exposing what will become a Pulitzer Prize (2003) winning probe of the Catholic Church's furtive silence and the Boston Archdiocese's cover up of pedophile priests who molested guileless young boys and girls in their Massachusetts' parishes, see the movie SPOTLIGHT, a docudrama written and directed by Tom McCarthy.  A film that is not histrionic in its presentation, but slowly and methodically builds a case which unearths the horrific breach of trust between "believers" and those who are anointed as their spiritual sentinels in the secular world. The aftermath of the newspaper's disclosures reverberated beyond its local sphere of examination into an international autopsy exhuming shame and dishonor upon the Church and its leaders.

SPOTLIGHT  opens with a feeling of tension; we sense the apprehension of a close-knit circle of reporters - the Spotlight investigative  division of The Boston Globe - a small corps of journalists who focus on one important story oftentimes for over a year -  when an "outsider", Marty Baron (a self-possessed, beautifully understated performance by Liev Schreiber) is recruited from The Miami Herald to become their new Editor. Baron realizes the potential of Spotlight to substantially examine an issue and shifts their target unto a story that over the years had been buried deep into the paper, occasionally surfacing to be interred again - eruptions of accusations appearing in print expeditiously extinguished. Marty Baron understands the need to look at the Institution itself - not just pinpointing individual perpetrators and victims, but examining the Catholic Church and its powerful influence on other authoritative organizations in predominantly Irish Catholic Boston, well aware that there will be attempts to stifle any exploration that cuts deeper into the skin of corruption.

The meticulous and disciplined search for the "truth" of a story involves interviewing victims  now in adulthood, who reveal lacerating facts on their loss of innocence at the hands of the very people they trusted most to protect them - a spiritual shock as well as a physical one. Sacha Pfeiffer (a non-glamourous Rachel McAdams who is turning into a wonderful actor) conducts many of the painful interviews excavating devastating memories - her empathy and concern are both convincing and authoritative. One weeps for the hidden secrets that are divulged and the overwhelming feeling of powerlessness that these young people must covertly endure. 


Michael Keaton, who stars as Walter "Robby" Robinson, communicates through expressive facial nuance, and the hunch of his shoulders, the conflicted burden and courage that being leader of the Globe's coverage exacts on his innate view of himself - an Irish Catholic member of the church; a man who rubbed shoulders with the Cardinal and other politically connected elite Church officials; a person who despite the distressing revelation that while he was Editor of the Metro Section years before - the glimmerings of this  scandal were literally kicked underground into files gathering dust in the storage bins of the newspaper.

Mark Ruffalo, another terrific actor is  frenetic as Mike Rezendes - a Spotlight columnist who is in constant motion, a whirlwind of  physical movement - ascetic in his dedication to spending long hours following leads, questioning defense attorneys, ferreting out important documents, petitioning court papers, and at the same time imbued with an equally impassioned integrity in lifting the lid on this pressure cooker of deceit. I responded to his innate decency and inexorable belief in the need for Spotlight  to yield a  scalpel of precision in cleansing the fetid decades old duplicity of the Church.

The fourth participant of Spotlight is the numbers man, Matt Carroll, (Brian d'Arcy James,) an individual who makes sense of the mounds of accumulated data, once the stick has pierced the hornet's nest. Carroll intuitively makes necessary connections and has the tough "unglamorous" job of putting fact to "fiction." 

SPOTLIGHT has an ensemble cast ie:  Ben Bradlee Jr. (played by John Slattery of Mad Men fame), son of Ben Bradlee of The Washington Post Watergate scandal fame) supervises the Spotlight team; Stanley Tucci excellent as Mitchell Garabedian who is portrayed as a querulous, cantankerous attorney whose firm to date has represented more than 1000 victims and survivors of clergy abuse. In 2001 Garabedian played a pivotal part in The Boston Globe's explosive revelations. 


What sets SPOTLIGHT apart from other movies that dramatize political "cover-ups" is the directness and restrained tone of its presentation. There are no "deep throats", midnight trysts lurking in the background, but rather a deliberate, efficient system of operation which slowly yields results that withstand legal scrutiny - conclusions backed by strong research that will detonate Institutional complicity and dissimulation - echoing around the globe generating further investigations like a chain of illuminations in a tunnel of obfuscation, lighting up the shrouds of darkness.
An educational and poignant drama that teaches us that there is as much evil in concealing injustice as perpetrating it, and no one who is part of the system is completely without blame.  I believed the entire story and all the characters.  Movies like this that dramatize real life brilliantly should just keep coming; I will gladly give $11 to see them on the big screen.
absolutely phenomenal. perfect performances, especially Mark Ruffalo, great writing, and a disgusting story of corruption and a hidden story that 4 great people working at a newspaper uncovered. disturbing, real, and heartfelt, spotlight is a great film and one worth seeing

9.5/10
No film this year has left me stumbling out of the theater speechless like Spotlight! This is THE film to beat at the Oscars this year! Spotlight is filmmaking at its very best! The entire cast is worthy of Oscar nominations, most notably Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, and Rachel McAdams! Tom McCarthy handles this subject matter with grace and care and makes for a shocking and thrilling piece of drama not seen enough from modern filmmakers! Spotlight is a flawless film and one that deserves to be seen by everyone! One viewing is not enough!  5 out of 5 stars!
***** Excellent 
You spotlight up my life, you give me hope, to carry on... Sorry to get all Debbie Booneish on you in my intro on my review of the spectacular movie "Spotlight". Director Tom McCarthy's movie about the true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese is shaking up to the be the frontrunner of the Best Picture Oscar, and why not? McCarthy's meticulous direction of the film and his layering of its expose was a sermonial, I mean a ceremonial piece of mastery. The Boston Globe's investigative "Spotlight" department shined on unveiling this disturbing truth. What was not disturbing was the exemplary acting performances from the actors playing the "spotlight" write players; including Mark Ruffalo as the emotional Mike Rezendes, Rachel McAdams as the conflicted Sacha Pfeiffer, Brian D'arcy James as the cerebral Matt Carroll, and the "Birdman" himself Michael Keaton as the group's leader Robby Robinson. Keaton and Ruffalo were the standouts here, but all should be given the proper spotlight for their commendable acting. Other fine thespian turns came from Stanley Tucci as the counsel Mitchell Garadebian, Liev Schrieber as the paper's new editor Marty Baron, and John Slattery as the associate editor Ben Bradlee. It will be very sad if this acting group does not get the SAG Best Acting Ensemble Award. McCarthy's script with fellow screenplayer Josh Singer had all of the write stuff of a multi- dimensional narrative covering an uncomfortable subject matter. Sure, the film does depict journalists as literary superheroes, but their procedural process workings was their greatest weapon to get rid of the darkness of the subject they were investigating; and it isn't that what superheroes do? or something like that? Anyways, I pray that "Spotlight' receives many Oscar nominations, as it should. So, it's now time for you to see and then share the "Spotlight".
One of the best and my favourite movies in the past 5 years.
Well done accounting. It's abominable on the scale of this travesty to our youth.
Outstanding movie about how Boston Globe researches and reveals sex abuse of boys and girls by Catholic priests that is covered up by the Catholic hierarchy.  An endemic cycle of abuse in hundreds of cities.
This one with it's impressive cast and smart script and nice direction with it's true story pushing it keeps you guessing and keeps you sucked in definitely one of the better movies of this year.
This is an spectacular movie. Most likely one of the best films of the year. The acting and script are impeccable. I cannot believe there were only 3 other people in the theatre with me. If you love investigative dramas, you cannot pass on this movie.
Spotlight is a pretty spot on, steady paced movie on the Catholic Church sex abuse scandal in Boston.
The movie takes place 2000-2001, and fueled by the Boston Globe's Spotlight investigative team, they find out some serious sexual abuse going in Boston with many priests.
They discovered a big cover up due to diligent reporting.

While the movie dealt with tough subject matter, I thought it did a good job in respect to the victims by not getting to explicit.
It was more about the reporting of the spotlight team, and the dedication they had to uncover the truth.
While the movie was fantastic, I felt like it could of had more of an overall effect.
More power.
The movie was simply steady in its pace.
When there was a break in the case, it just felt like a steady break, not a break that moved emotions.

Getting to the cast I thought they were all extremely fantastic, and why I am giving this movie 4 stars.
Keaton is great as the leader of the team, McAdams was phenomenal, and the real star was Ruffalo in my opinion.  He was energetic, and dedicated to his craft.
The Spotlight team was good at its work and it showed on screen, and the actor who portrayed it did an awesome job.

The subject matter is a really difficult one to talk about, and watch a movie about.
I thought the line of emotion the whole movie was a straight line, while I wanted to see a little bit more ups...I wanted to be moved more than I was.

Overall it is a really good movie.  It brought light, albeit not enough to the overall abuse that has gone on in the Catholic Church, and that there are many victims out there.
A powerful film that I felt had the potential to be more powerful and effective.
A stellar cast and a newshound story as credible as All The President's Men make this Boston-based film (made with real Boston accents by the way) a sure thing for one of the best films of the year.
Awesome, riveting, movie! great story-telling.
2-17-2016. Original rating:11-20-2015 (8.5/10).
The tension is palpable and the opponent is ever-looming for a fantastic cast of intrepid reporters. Solid all around.
Amazing. Period. An absolute must-see. Most impactful film I've watched all year.
I'm sure this movie will rack up on the awards nominations in the coming months, and deservedly so. Tom McCarthy does such a great job directing this ensemble cast and getting amazes performances out of them all. The story this investigation reveals is horrific, but also an important one to be told. Not really sure why this movie constituted an R rating though.
Spotlight was exceptional. Great acting, riveting story line and an important topic. I cannot recommend this highly enough
Very well done about an uncomfortable subject.  Liev Schreiber continues his rise towards superstardom.
Truly brilliant storytelling and film making a definite must see. Worthy of many Oscar nods.
great movie! wonderful acting! interesting the whole way through!
Gran actuación de todo un grupo, tocando el téma de abuso sexual por padres de la iglesia Boston
very well done drama about the team that broke the Catholic Church's cover up of the child sex abuse scandal. if it weren't true, it would be unbelievable .  this is an important film. the acting is top notch. the story is about the Newspaper business, and how good it can be.
A movie that needed to be made if only for it's topic. And yet, it never reaches the potential it should have, even with it's cast and crew.
Best film of the year ... So far
Taut, riveting film that explores the efforts of a crack team of Boston Globe reporters in breaking the Catholic church sex abuse scandal.  This is an ensemble cast in every sense (so much so that it's hard to single out anyone for Oscar glory, though I'm going with Mark Ruffalo). Despite a simple, by-the-numbers approach, the film is filled with complex moments and is stronger for its understated tone. And while the titular spotlight shines on the Catholic church, you might be surprised who else this beam exposes.
Double this excellent feature with the documentary Mea Maxima Culpa to get
the bigger picture.
Saw a documentary on Netflix recently telling a factual similar story. This looks very promising.
a little slow at times but an important film to see.
This is brilliant and not just for the inspiration, but also for Hello Mr. Mark Ruffalo.
Ruffalo Keaton and Adams are so money
In the tradition of 70's thrillers like All the President's Men, Spotlight tells the story of a team of journalists who are trying to uncover a pedophile priest ring in the very heart of Boston. The movie is never schmaltzy or hammy, with lots of good performances peppered throughout the film. The subject matter is icky and hard to conceive, but the movie is respectful and well done.
One of the best movies of the year. I felt a sense of tragic irony while watching it that the movie will be as overlooked as its subject matter.
A riveting drama. Love a good movie about real journalism and Spotlight delivers.
Compelling. Excellent direction and cast.
Deserves its Oscar for best picture. No words necessary
One of the best films I've seen this century.
Heavy heavy movie but absolutely fantastic. The cast was superb and definitely worth watching
Pretty slow, but I really liked the movie.
Shocks me that this is based on a true story and events.
Only greatness can expected from a movie with a brilliant cast, and indeed, from beginning to end, Spotlight was nothing less. However, Spotlight is not just a movie with a great cast, it is a movie with a great story.

Based on a true story, Spotlight is a team of four journalists, played by Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, and Brian d'Arcy James, who work for the Boston Globe newspaper that specialize in detailed investigations. Throughout the movie their job is to uncover a single story, the involvement of the Catholic Church in a huge sexual abuse scandal.

However, even though the movie starts as an investigation, it becomes much more than that. Director Thomas McCarthy manages to turn Spotlight into a personal matter without forgetting about the importance of the movie. As the Spotlight team unravel more and dig deeper, they change their views and feelings, all while keeping the news story and research going, and that is what draws you in.

With a superb cast, director, and screenplay, Spotlight does more than tell a story. It draws the viewer's attention to the issue, to the research, to the journalistic process and not to the people around it. There are no specific heroes, the article is what triumphs... because that is what journalism is about.
Timely, incredible cast, just an awesome movie !!!
OMG, it's just so sick how this sort of crime goes on & on. Good for Boston Herald to bring this shame out into the open.
Geez that was a GREAT movie! I never really liked Michael Keaton until his performance in Birdman. His performance in Spotlight was equally great as well as Mark Ruffalo. Mark was fantastic. If you like a good movie, one that you will talk about for a while, this is the one to see. Really enjoyed it.
"The Oscar frontrunner!" - Patrick King, REEL BRIEF
Excellent enactment of the horrible injustice and sin that plagues the Catholic Church.
Spotlight  is another  jewel in Tom McCarthy's terrific canon which includes The Visitor, Win Win and The Station Agent.   An A -team ensemble cast  (Keaton and Tucci notably)  methodically tells the narrative of the Catholic priest molestation and how the Boston Globe diligently dug deep into that scandal.  Top 5 movie of the year for me.  (11-22-15)
One of the best of 2015 and bizarre to hear and see your high school mentioned many times.
Best movie I've seen years. Brilliantly acted and so powerful and thought provoking I went home and read the actual article from the Boston Globe
Good pacing, great acting, great script, just a great movie. I learned a lot from it too.
An excellent on a deeply sad subject. The film manages to deliver an accurate depiction of the real challenges in a news room and hold a quick narrative pace. The film also does a good job of holding the suspense in a story where the audience already knows the outcome. The collective performances of the ensemble led by Keaton and Ruffalo deserve an academy award.
The film brings to light a well known subject with lots of previously unknown (at least to me) details that prompted me to fact check the story (it is all too true).  The film is therefore informative in addition to being a very good movie with a top cast.  There are a number of messages to take away from this entertaining film, but none more important than the fact a true free press not solely driven by the financial bottom line, has been the backbone of this country and its ideals as well as freedom itself.  Sadly in today's assault on free speech and drive to print or report only what is safe, sensational, and for profit, this kind of journalism is what may cease to exist even as the crime this story covers flourishes.
marvelous wonderful must see
Amazing cast and it flowed at a good pace, I'm glad there was nothing funny or sexy about it too. Definitely worth seeing in the theater.
The front-runner for Best Original Screenplay in just about every award show this year is Spotlight. the riveting, frighteningly accurate story about the cover-up and exposure of the pedophilia scandal that nearly destroyed the Catholic Church during the 2000's. As the statistic was at that time, nearly 6% off all catholic priests in the world were accused of sexual assault. Yes, it's far too painful to want to believe, but this is true. A noticeable amount Catholic priests were guilty of this, and many more may exist to this day. The truth is, these things happened, and the Church did next to nothing to stop it. It caused many people, like myself, to become lapsed Catholics, and some became not religious at all. Thus, Spotlight, a film about journalism, is a microcosm of journalism in itself. It's the truth that you don't want to hear, but you really should hear. Tom McCarthy brings the story to life with an unbeatable cast. The standout star is Mark Ruffalo, who in this, gives a raging monologue that has easily sealed him an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor. The best scenes are, without a doubt, the interviews with the survivors. You'll be left stunned, that's all I have to say right now. Theres not a moment of drag in this picture. Spotlight hooks you in to the very last frame. It's screenplay is the heart of it all. It reaffirms you how intelligent a film can truly be. If this doesn't win any awards for Best Original Screenplay in the coming season, I'd be flabbergasted. Spotlight absolutely delivers as an engaging drama, a loud advocate of free speech and a relentless call for criminal justice everywhere.
Very rarely do I feel like I want to kill someone with my own hands. However every time I read about animal abusers and pedophiles my blood boils and I want to strangle someone. 

Spotlight is a pretty decent movie that covers one of the most horrific stories of the last 25 years. The film covers the investigation of the child abuse victims and perpetrators in Boston, though in fairness this was a worldwide phenomenon, not a local issue. 

The movie is 1/2 about investigative journalism and 1/2 about the disgusting abuses and cover ups from the church. How this could have happened and been swept under the rug for so long is a vulgarity.

While this is a really good movie it's perhaps 20 minutes too long and it could have been a bit tighter.
No explosions. Not a franchise.  But it does my soul good that they still make story movies and people still like them. And how good, especially right now, to see a story about people shining a light on a big, powerful organization and actually being able to accomplish some good.
One of those movies that at the roll of the credits you could hear a pin drop.  Powerful and moving.  Amazing acting performances.
awesome movie....casting was genius
Excellent movie, very tastefully done given the sensitive issue. Excellent acting!  Wish it had more strong female characters - the whole thing was a bit male dominated.
Perfect performances and a compelling story, aside from dragging a little this was a great movie all around. Wouldn't be surprised to see it nominated for an Oscar.
Truly an engaging and excellent movie! This is why people still flock to the theaters. 

Spotlight works like the summers big action shoot em up film, in that you're thoroughly entertained and on the edge of your seat. However, it's done in the most fine and intelligent way. 

Great, great movie
Wee; written, well acted...a very special movie.
Amazing - go see it!
Even as a lapsed Catholic with some knowledge of the scandal, I found this incredibly hard to sit through at times. Horrific. Superbly performed but the disturbing subject is focused into view.
Incredible movie. Another winner by Tom McCarthy
Very well done. Superb cast.  Even a little who-done-it thrown in.  Definitely a Best Picture candidate - it would be my choice for the Oscar this year.
Great Movie with an amazing cast dealing with sensitive subject matter. One of the biggest instutional Cover Ups in history.......The systematic abuse of children, faith and authority by a "Holy Institution". Oscar Contender
This is a good movie and it tells an important story. That said I was a little underwhelmed considering the overwhelmingly positive reviews on RT. Basically this is a solid film if you are interested in the topic and like newsroom dramas. The point about the importance of dedicated investigative reporters is certainly worth making. The acting is on point across the board though I expected something a little more innovative from a film with Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton, two of my favorite actors. This movie succeeds at what it is trying for but both the story and the form in which it's told are formulaic and have been done better. Worth seeing but it's not going to expand your idea of what cinema can do if you know what I mean.
A story of disgrace well told.
WOW! Powerful and poignant. So many victims had their voices silenced - it is tragic what can happen to vulnerable children at the hands of those in spiritual authority. So glad this incredible story was told. Many will still deny the power those in spiritual positions have and how they abuse that power in so many ways. The long-term effects are devastating for so many...and paying off victims does little, if anything, other than to be hush money to protect these pedophiles. GREAT MOVIE!!
it's not anything more than it needs to be. tells a truthful story without resorting to Hollywood antics.
Absolutely amazing and important film. Super well directed, acted, and paced. Perfect and a must see film.
"This is a fascinating, thoroughly intelligent, at times kinda unsettling film. With some performances that are so amazingly simple and a story that I know nobody wants to talk about. It's important though. Even if it makes you feel sick."
LOSING OUR RELIGION: My take on the movie Spotlight http://ow.ly/UWGKN
excellent storytelling.
A generally effective though sometimes plodding chronicle of how Spotlight, the Boston Globe's investigative reporting unit, exposed the Catholic Church's coordinated coverup of the child abuse activities of priests around the world. After a painfully slow opening 30 minutes, the film takes off, working best when the Spotlight reporters are out in the field, interviewing sources and uncovering leads. The picture's capable ensemble delivers with earnest, committed sincerity, despite a dearth of meaningful character development. Because of its powerful message, this is bound to be a strong awards season contender for sure.
Great acting and writing
May very well be best film of the year....
And people still support organized religion. This movie was amazing and heart wrenching at the same time.
When was the last time your adrenaline pumped in a movie without a single car chase scene or gunshot? Absolutely riveting performances from the entire cast.
Wow, powerful ... We all left the movie saying that was an experience. 

Great cast, excellent script that makes a straight exposition exciting and powerful from start to finish. The plus is the insight into how a great paper operates.
This is a cops and robbers story without the shootouts.  The cops, played artfully by an ensemble cast that is stellar in every way - dogged, conflicted, on the right side of truth and faced with an adversary of humongous proportions robbing children of their spirit, and a town of its responsibility toward them.  The reporters were blocked at every turn, and subtley interrupted in their quest for accountability and justice. I was there at the time the story was written, know some of the protagonists, and can attest to what they faced.  The movie is brilliant in its unraveling, the tension is tight, the storyline unambiguous.  For someone like me who spent so long in Boston, Catholic, and on the police department, I can attest to the clutch-hold that "Lake Street" (the Archdiocese) had over the legal, financial, and cultural aspects of the city.  What these reporters faced by way of resistance, barriers, and subtle threats cannot be understated.  The movie made me reminisce for the good old days of investigative journalism.  That nothing was noted at the end of it about the numerous Pulitzers they received kept it pure, their motives altruistic.  They not only uncovered hypocrisy and corruption in the church, but in the legal community, the law enforcement community, the legislature, and yes, even in the Globe itself.  Everyone--parishoners and Catholics especially--was forced to take a good hard look at their part in the widespread abuse of innocents.  Go see it.  We can all use the reminders now and again.
terrifically produced. ..held my attention throughout...
Great acting but slow story in this riveting and powerful drama.
I like the moment when the journalists are on their very last nerve.  The scene arrives toward the end of "Spotlight," and it's a moving one, in an investigative film of nail-biting scope.  These writers, Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), employees of The Boston Globe, have been tirelessly probing, for the past year or so, cases of sex abuse in the Catholic church by priests, a scandal which, as it turns out, does not just consist of a handful of instances but an abominable reach stretching continents.  
	The two, part of a larger staff of journalistic detectives known as the Spotlight Team, are close to making their breakthrough - they have uncovered thousands of cases spanning several decades - but a hitch, known to many as 9/11, interrupts the process.  Audiences don't want to read about religiously guarded crime soon after a devastating terrorist attack.  And so the story is put off for months, with worries that entail that maybe another newspaper will discover the foul play for themselves, that maybe the scandal will never be published, that maybe abuse will go on with no one aware of what's actually happening.
	This deeply disturbs Michael, not just on a professional level but also on a personal one.  In frustration, the sequence finds him arriving at Sacha's doorstep on a cold, winter night, ready to talk to someone in a way not necessarily occupationally related.  He is shaken, depressed even, by the fact that religion is never something that will not be tainted to him ever again.  He always figured that, if times got rough, he would always be able to turn back to his Catholic upbringing for answers.  Not anymore - things are too complicated, too repulsive.  
	It's moments like these that make "Spotlight" so personal; when headlines finally did come out, exclaiming what seemed to be the impossible, it turned the world upside-down.  Here, we see a man so closely connected to the case that his blood may as well be on the pages.  The fact that even he, a professional determined to allow an important story to see the light of day, left the investigation a changed person, a more cynical one, proves just what a valuable vocation journalism is, how much we underrate the people who put their own interests on the line day in and day out in hopes to stand for what's right.  
	"Spotlight" is one of the finest journalism films ever made, next to "All the President's Men" and "Good Night, And Good Luck." Compelling in the most thunderous of ways, it is burdened by, and succeeds in consideration to, the difficult task of being entertaining, by the book, and humane.  It has a story consuming enough to grab our attention for a century - but what takes it to electric heights is just how far it takes its human level tweaks, taking the time to establish its characters as real people, not untouchable everyday superheroes, and how it avoids sensationalism, making its frequent jaw-dropping pieces of evidence stop by not with the opera of a Hollywood plot twist but with a realistic damnation.  McCarthy's direction and screenplay (co-written with Josh Singer), so highly attentive and so patient, makes us feel as though we're living through the case just as Spotlight did over a decade ago.  It's movies like this that make me excited to go to the movies in the first - having an experience, not merely going through the throes of escapism, is a celluloid derived feeling unlike any other.
	In a film as subtle as "Spotlight," it's easy to forget that the top-notch cast is performing: so painlessly natural are they that journalism seems like their calling in life, not acting.  Michael Keaton, in his follow-up to the audacious "Birdman," is excellent as an editor forced to tone investigative zest down for the sake of keeping ethics in check; Ruffalo, uniformly impressive, becomes Rezendes whole-heartedly, echoing his bear-like qualities with effortless determination.  McAdams furthers her status as one of film's most dependable actresses; Liev Schreiber, perhaps the definition of understated here, is the film's backbone as the guiding light of the case.
	Come Oscar time, "Spotlight," without a doubt, will be a contender for several major categories.  Films as sharply drawn as this one are rare, and I can only be thankful that an "All the President's Men" of the digital age is able to stop by without causing us to remember that "The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2" is playing next door.
Very well done. But nothing new
Better than "All the President's Men," and against a bigger target. Ultimate proof that goodness can exist only where faith is NOT blind, and nobody should be above accountability to the people they affect.
Although I feel like I have seen this type of movie many times before, I still thought it was very well done. Ruffalo is one of my favorite actors and I he is great here. Keaton just seemed to always be sucking on lemons so it was distracting. good way to spend a cold rainy afternoon. Nothing overly original and a bit preachy how essential good investigative news journalism is, but good solid movie.
Who'll like this movie? Adults, educated people with a brain. It was a great journalistic film. You get taken on a roller coater ride of intrigue and you'll reach the crescendo as the result of the little by little uncovering of shocking evidence. awesome movie.
One of the best newspaper films ever. An incredibly engrossing and compelling portrayal of one of our generation's greatest journalistic achievements.
Masterful on nearly every account, from its inspiring and realistic portrayal of investigative journalism at its finest, to its sensitivity in handling a very delicate subject matter, to its expert ensemble cast, to writer-director Tom McCarthy beautifully tying all the elements together. Spotlight will be remembered as one of 2015's best and most important films, and deserves to be a seen and engaged with by as many people as possible.
incredibly well done
Finally, a Hollywood film that tackles a very sensitive real-life subject in a fair and even-handed way, without grandstanding to the audience. Refreshing, to say the least.
Superbly done film which covers The Boston Globe investigation which uncovered sexual abuse scandal in the Catholic archdiocese of Boston. Much of the film focuses on the journalistic process by which the investigation was conducted and advanced, as opposed to focusing on the victims and perpetrators, so it's not the most dramatic, moving, or memorable in my view, but it does the subject justice that perhaps a base appeal to emotion would not.
Well done and also difficult to watch. Michael Keaton is fantastic!! Best yet for Michael Keaton.
Solid ... and a true story to be told ... but not a "best of the year" type pic
Everyone of adult age should see this movie about wrong doing and how others help criminals perpetrate actions by covering up actions or ignoring wrong doing. Based on a true story, and told with compassion, passion and persistence.
Truly well made film with a very interesting story and stellar cast(particularly Mark Ruffalo). The story keeps you well interested so much, you won't want to go to the bathroom and miss anything. I don't see this film as a huge award contender, but it definitely won't be ignored. This story is a pretty good comparison to ''All the President's Men''. If you've seen that movie, this one is worth seeing. This is a must see. My grade= 95%(A+).
Really good movie. Should win the Oscar. Extremely suspenseful and interesting. Didn't want to stop watching. Very emotional.
It was very, very good. Oscar nominations for Ruffalo and Tucci for sure,  I think.
Magnificent!!! But I don't recommend this movie to everyone. I would say..."Spotlight" is the 2010s' answer to the 1970s' "All The President's Men." If you didn't like ATPM, you might not like Spotlight. They have many of the same characteristics: intricate plot, succinct dialogue, and deliberate pacing. But if you loved movies like "The Insider (1999)" and the aforementioned "All the President's Men (1976)," Spotlight might be right up your alley. Along with "Ex Machina," "Sicario," and "Steve Jobs," Spotlight is (I think) one of this year's best movies.
A really great movie, award nominations to follow.
Phenomenal script and writing. Expertly composed and delivered.
This movie was very well-made. The cast did a good job. This story was very interesting as well. This movie being based off of a true story made the movie even more interesting. I know this movie has a high rating, and I do not agree a lot of the time with the reviews a movie receives. However, I agree this time with those people that gave this movie a bunch of hype. This film is one of the best movies I have seen this year. Anyone who is reading this should go see this movie.
Hands down the best film I have seen this year, Stellar cast, brilliant direction - would not be surprised if it racks in awards
I read a book recently about evolution and religion. In the book the author states that while religion can help people and has the capacity to do good, we must first look at all the bad it has facilitated and then place those two considerations on a scale to weigh them out. For example, without religion, the twin towers would still be standing and all the people who lost their lives on 9/11 would not have died that day. Religion was behind the crusades, it has been behind school shootings and serial killings and the recent Paris tragedy and countless civil (and world) wars. And without religion, there would not be an epidemic of biblical (no pun intended) proportions concerning twisted, pedophile priests using their holy anointing to prey upon their underaged congregation. An epidemic that has only relatively recently come to light, but one which has been raging for as long as priests have been donning their clerical collars.   

Spotlight is about the Boston Globe uncovering and reporting on the sexual molestation of children by priests in Boston. Although the paper only starts with a single reported offence, the Globe's Spotlight team eventually uncovers that over two hundred (!) Boston area priests were involved in over a thousand (!) reported cases of sexual abuse towards minors over the past thirty years. Over a thousand. By priests. Holy men of God, spiritually anointed by God Himself through the archdiocese to care for and lead their congregational flock in a better understanding of, and a closer walk, with Thee. Is there anything more twisted, more purely deranged, than that. And that's just Boston. After this story broke, thousands of priests all over the world have been accused of molesting by many tens of thousands of people. To the casual observer it looks as though the Catholic church is running a birthing house for pervert criminals. 

And it doesn't help that the Church itself has been so aloof in taking responsibility for its clergy. As the Spotlight team uncover more about the story, they uncover more about the cover ups by the Church to keep these stories under wraps, when they are well aware of these heinous goings on. So aware in fact that they actually have a number of full time treatment centres around the world, always operating at full capacity, solely for pedophile priests in need of 'spiritual realignment'. And are the priests then stripped of their collars and sent to prison or at the very least to live in exile somewhere nowhere near a church or a child? No, they're sent right back out into the world to another church with another congregation full of children with innocent lives to ruin. And I do mean ruin.

As the Spotlight team investigate, they speak to the survivors. Considering all the many thousands of incidents of sexual abuse within the Catholic church, it isn't easy at first for Spotlight to track down a great many survivors to talk about their experiences. This is because many, if not most, survivors of clerical molestation are either unwilling to talk about their experiences, or they are dead. Dead from suicide, dead from drug or alcohol addiction, dead, essentially, from an inability to function in a normal healthy way. Think about that and then consider what I said earlier: thousands of priests the world over have been accused in tens of thousands of cases. And the accusers are the lucky ones, the ones who made it, how many more cases will go untold by the ones who didn't? 

Director Tom McCarthy directs Spotlight with a very matter of fact approach. The film is dry, stubbornly paced and presents the facts without any interest in a poppy visual style or expressive angles. In essence: this is the way it was. Good for him, this story is too important for those distractions. The same can be said for the acting. The film boasts an impressive roster of seasoned actors and all of them do well to get the job done without a bit of scenery chewing. I was particularly impressed with Liev Schreiber, who's understated performance here is also one of his best. 

I recently watched two documentaries on these scandals: 2012's Mea Maxima Culpa: Silence in the House of God and 2006's Deliver Us From Evil. If there's one qualm I have with Spotlight, it's that for anyone who has seen these doc's, the movie doesn't have much to offer you won't already know. In fact, if you haven't seen these doc's, whether you see Spotlight or not, I highly recommend watching them as they paint an even fuller picture than the one you'll get with this film. 

Spotlight is an important movie, it's a brave movie and it's a movie that needs to be seen. People need to be aware of these atrocities being committed in God's name and the Catholic church needs to do something about them already. The world is losing its religion at a higher rate today than ever before and with all the horrible things being done in God's name these days, it's not hard to imagine why.
Very good movie with a stellar cast it will remind you of All The Presidents Men and how despicable the cover up by the Catholic Church was.
9.2/10
This movie is second one I've seen this year revolved around reporters (Truth 2015), and is also a great movie that leaves you with a lot of emotions and thinking long after watching it. It featured an excellent cast and everyone was up to their part. Although I expected it to delved more into the victims and their stories, it still revealed a lot, concerning a very delicate topic that might seem uncomfortable but is one that needs much more attention. Thus, Spotlight is a very important film that although not perfect has a very important story that shakes you and tells you the tough truth surrounding child molestation by catholic priests. 
~November 21, 2015~
One of the best and most compelling movies I've seen in the past 2 years. This should be the front-runner for Best Picture at the Oscars.
Spotlight will be considered among the top films in the running for Best pictof the year as well as Best screenplay.  Micheal Keaton does an excellent job.  Rating: *** 1/2 out of four.
The politics in this movie will probably earn it some Oscar nominations, because if there's anything we know about the Academy it's that it loves historically or politically significant movies (The Imitation Game, American Sniper, The Theory of Everything as nominations for Best Picture just from last year). This movie will be a shoe-in for the nomination, but more importantly it deserves the nomination.

The issue depicted in the film may seem a little dated (the story takes place in 2001) but it is nonetheless an important issue to discuss. The movie is somewhat aware of this as there are constant references to the fact that The Boston Globe could have exposed this issue of priests molesting children years ago and it is a mystery why they did not.

Most people would probably describe the film as being slow-paced, to which I would respond that the movie wouldn't accomplish anything more than if it was edited to have a faster pace. This film needs to fill the audience in on details, and the audience is aware of that.  It allows the audience to get the full impact of what is at issue here if we follow the journalists' investigation step by step.

Spotlight has an ensemble cast of A-list actors including Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and John Slattery, who all deliver great performances. I predict that Ruffalo will be nominated as Best Supporting Actor for the second year in a row. There is a moment in the film when his character has to show determination and frustration simultaneously as his suggestion is denied by Keaton's character, and at this point in the story we are forced to side with Ruffalo and the scene is heartbreaking.

While the cast as a whole is great, we only get tiny insights into other characters' motivations and perspectives, but these glimpses still illustrate who the characters are perfectly. For example, one of the team members realize there is a pedophile priest living just a block away from him, and his first thought is to protect the children of the area. He cannot warn the children, however, until the story is released, once again making us question the decisions made by the executives at The Boston Globe.

My last comment is that this film is never visually interesting, but political dramas like this are not meant to be great works of art; rather, they are meant to create a cohesive story with well-developed characters to root for, and the film does exactly that and more. These types of film rely on realism, and while they are not necessarily documentaries, they need to inform us of real-world issues, and Spotlight never fails at doing so.

3.5/4.0
Tackling subject matter like Spotlight does is very difficult to portray on film.  You have to accurately tell the story enough to not create outcry while also not relying on the weight of the source material in order to induce emotion.  It's difficult, but certainly not impossible and Spotlight did pretty much everything right.  The acting from one of the best ensemble casts of the year is phenomenal.  Everyone gave such a great performance that no one ended up stealing the spotlight, pun intended.  The directing is top notch as Tom McCarthy perfectly weaves between scenes without any wasted screen time.

Spotlight is based on the 'Spotlight investigative team at the Boston Globe and their uncovering of the Massachusetts Catholic sex abuse scandal.  I think what I was most impressed with was that it by no means was a catholic hate fest, and it definitely could have been.  In fact, several moments throughout the film it is shown that even the Spotlight team made many mistakes during the course of this piece.  I really appreciated the way everyone was portrayed.

The performances are all incredible.  I'm sure the film will garner many awards come a few months, but it was the chemistry between the entire group that was most impressive.  There isn't really a lead, the whole team should be honored.  But if I had to pick, I think Mark Ruffalo deserves the most recognition, in large part due to the writing, but it's his subtly emotional sequences that are most effective.

When you think of investigative journalism films, All the President's Men certainly comes to mind for most people, rightfully so.  But I think Spotlight may this generation's version of that.  There are plenty of moments in which it's obvious is inspired from that film, and they both do a great job at making a film without any action, very interesting.  I'd be shocked if this doesn't get nominated for a ton of Oscars and possibly even win best picture.  Spotlight is extraordinary.

+Ruffalo

+Ensemble cast

+Tight script

+Meticulous directing

10/10
Very interesting, definitely changes your perspective about church!
The best thing about Spotlight, is that the whole cast and crew....they made this movie the right way.
More of an 8.5 than a 9, this is still a pretty darn good movie.

The film tells the story of the Boston Globe's uncovering of child abuse in the Catholic Church. It's done in a rather thrilling way, evoking similar feelings to various political thrillers of the 70s. This works to the film's advantage as we the audience learn just how bad things get at the same time the characters do. It's really well done.

There isn't really a true lead in this film. It's split pretty evenly between Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, and Michael Keaton as our main three reporters. All three do wonderful work, though it is Ruffalo who gets the film's biggest moment. Luckily, he nails it. If anyone is MVP of this film, it's Ruffalo.

The film does a great job of hooking you in and never letting go, which is good considering the film has no weak points. It's strong from start to finish and will leave you on the edge of your seat.
An anger inducing look into the Boston Globe's uncovering of the massive molestation scandal in the Catholic Church. Best Picture contender for sure.
Tom McCarthy, you're forgiven for The Cobbler. Spotlight is absolutely sensational; a gripping tale of investigative journalism in the heart of All the President's Men. There's never a dull moment in it and the ensemble cast is excellent. One of the year's best movies, for sure!
ALL THE RESIDENT'S BOYS - My Review of SPOTLIGHT (4 Stars)

Investigative journalism seems like such a thing of the past in our current quick soundbite, click-bait culture, but SPOTLIGHT deftly and understatedly makes its case for slow, steady, methodical grunt work.  Perhaps eclipsed by the events of September 11th, the film looks at how the Boston Globe's 4 person Spotlight Department worked their butts off to expose the sexual molestation cover-ups within the local Catholic church.  In doing so, they ignited a worldwide scandal by clearly demonstrating an outright conspiracy to protect their priests while hushing the victims and their families.  

Director Tom McCarthy (THE STATION AGENT, THE VISITOR, WIN WIN) is having Sandra Bullock's 2009, the year she won the Oscar for THE BLIND SIDE and the Razzie for ALL ABOUT STEVE.  For him, he has one of the year's best with his latest film and one of the worst with THE COBBLER, further proving that you CAN win them all!  Along with co-writer Josh Singer, SPOTLIGHT feels deliberately artless and unfussy.  It opts instead for a large ensemble style of storytelling, drab settings such as government buildings and blue collar homes, and a laid-back, 70s style of framing.  

Many films have tried to emulate ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, from ZODIAC to TRUTH, but SPOTLIGHT comes the closest to that understated masterpiece's aesthetic and passion.  Having said that, I'm not sure it's a compliment to say there isn't one memorable shot in this entire film or that anyone gives a standout performance.  Everyone does their job really well, ensuring that nobody pulls focus from the real story. John Slattery, Rach McAdams, Brian d'Arcy James, and Mark Ruffalo make a cohesive team as the main reporters, and John Slattery, Live Schreiber and Michael Keaton ably carry most of the exposition as their superiors.  

Only Ruffalo gets a loud, shouty scene, but it felt appropriate after the ridiculous amount of obstacles his character had to overcome just to gain access to a sealed file.  I would have definitely had one of those "Let me speak to your Supervisor!" meltdowns too.  For anyone who has ever rushed to get somewhere before they close and gets tripped up by slow drivers, pedestrians, or bureaucrats, these scenes will ring true.

What this film truly excels at, however, is its steadily building sense of dread.  Despite the fact that we all know where the story's going, seeing it through the eyes of these reporters has its own power.  About midway through, there's a stunning, jaw-dropping scene between McAdams and a priest where all of the cards get laid on the table.  Because the entire film is told from such a specific point of view, I felt her quiet, perfectly calibrated reaction.  This is one of McAdams' finest bit of acting in her entire career...ok, maybe with the exception of her MEAN GIRLS "I love your skirt!" scene.  Eschewing what could have easily been an endless series of maudlin confessionals, the film favors phone messages, evasions, scrawled notes, microfilm, and lots and lots of closed doors. 

Without hitting its audience over the head, we see children at play in the corners of frames, to subtly remind us of what's at stake.  Sure, the journalists, while quirky or downright odd if you happen to be Live Schreiber here, come off as purely heroic, but it seems earned.  Its quiet power may ultimately be unmemorable, but there's something beautiful and rare in seeing hardworking people professionally doing a good job.
I had been seeing the previews for the movie "Spotlight" running
in theaters for a while.  Based on the true story and with a terrific
cast, I was extremely excited to see this film.  It just had to be
good.

Of course I went opening day and I wasn't disappointed at all.  Though
I was very tired and my eyelids were closing, I kept staying awake because
the entire film were riveting.

Set in passionate Boston with their heavy Catholic population, the
Church is extremely cherished, honored and we learn too, protected.

The internationally recognized Boston Globe newspaper paper has a 
legendary investigate reporting division called "Spotlight" (hence the
movie's name). This film does a fantastic job highlighting professional,
diligent, credible investigation and reporting they did (say compared to the recent
film "Truth" where 60 Minutes rammed a major story together in just
a few days vs. this story which took months).

The rumors had been present in Boston for a long
time but essentially buried by all parties by either the fear or respect
of the church.  The Globe decided to look much deeper into the 
allegations of disgraced priest John Geoghan and the accusations his 
molesting over 80 boys.

This crackajack investigative team including (Mark Rufalo, Rachel McAdams,
Michael Keaton and Brian d'Arcy James) and their bosses John Slattery and
Live Schreiber are remarkably focused and diligent in their gathering of
evidence, quotes etc.

The Spotlight division began their focus in 2001 and zips along till 9/11
hit (as that city has its own relation to that days tragic events).  After
a 6 week hiatus, the team hits the ground running again the story and the
numbers (villains and victims) just keeps growing substantially.

Cast also includes Stanley Tucci, Len Cariou, Billy Crudup and Jamey
Sheridan and folks this is one "tight" piece of movie making based on 
a true story.

There are a ton of good movies out on the big screen at the moment.  
"Spotlight" is the winner to see.  Stay for the credits which shares
the lists of cities domestically and internationally have documented
Clergy abuse.  It is a SHOCKINGLY LONG LIST.
First-rate drama that works thanks to a pitch-perfect cast and keeping the story grounded in reality.  The acting is superb, with Keaton continuing his career renaissance Walter Robinson, a man who is a part of the Catholic community but not blind to what is going on when the evidence is presented to him.  He is matched well by Ruffalo, who gives a twitchy & excited performance Rezendes, a reporter who knows a big story & it's consequences.  Behind the camera, Tom McCarthy keeps the story grounded, not showing fancy tricks but reporters doing leg work & real investigating.  Plus, he shows the problem with the scandal was there no real bad guys (outside of the priests themselves) but a lot of normal people who either looked the other way or when they tried, hit a wall & gave up.  Overall, one of the best dramas of 2015 and up there with "All the President's Men" in films about investigative journalism.
This great cast created on-screen tension with nothing but Catholic Church directories, newspaper clippings, and court documents. A trip back to the start of this century means seeing loads of Oxford shirts, pleated khakis, canvas briefcases, and huge computer monitors.
Very interesting moving about the cover up of the Catholic Church priest abuse scandal.  Great acting - well worth taking the time to see this movie!
This movie is life-altering!! It left me speechless because of its content and also because of how it unfolded. Simply amazing!
I was not prepared for the emotional impact this outstandingly crafted and acted movie would have on me--and I'm neither Catholic nor an abuse survivor. Not a false note in the entire movie. Truly one of the finest pictures I've ever seen, and, being 62, I've seen quite a few.
One of the most powerful, and important films of our life time. Masterfully written, well acted, and flawlessly directed. "Spotlight" is the best film of 2015 hands down.
What ever stellar review you've read about this film, believe it!
Wow. That was a tough one to watch... So very very well done, though! Oof! Mark Ruffalo is amazing.
A real crowdpleaser. If this doesn't win the SAG ensemble cast award, I'll be very surprised. It kind of feels like "All the President's Men," but with more players. Everyone is excellent in this film. Especially Liev Schreiber and Stanley Tucci.
Tom McCarthy's brilliant docudrama about the Boston Globe's Catholic church sex abuse scandal is full of dark humorous, fluid dialogue,that kept me interested from start to finish. This is a great ensemble drama, where every one is doing their part, however, no one gives a showy Oscar performance in the film. For me, one breakout of the movie is Brian d'Archy James as one of the reporters. I could not take my eyes off him since he's a major unknown. However, it switches to Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton as they pick up the information. As for flaws, the major one is that (spoiler) the post-9/11 world is less shown. Also, the movie does not get going until the first half hour. Still, I left the film less dark and more understood about the damaging world of institutions.
A direct but poignant procedural on a dark subject. McCarthy's direction coupled with an all-time great ensemble cast make Spotlight perhaps the best film of 2015.
Best movie I have seen in a while.  Great movie regarding an awful event/cover up!
A la Watergate...solid story about Boston  Catholic Diocese long time coverup of many of its priests' sexual abuse of children.

Timely release considering that earlier today, in London, Ontario, the Police Service acted on the information of three complainants & arrested & charged an Anglican minister for his alleged abuse of three youths in 1977, who were part of  a parish located on a nearby First Nation Reserve.
Great movie. Very accurate.
Ensemble story on a morally important theme. Is this an American movie?
This is a pretty captivating movie that involves no explosions in terms of the performances or any stunts but is guided along with a very strong screenplay and a strong ensemble to play it out. Mark Ruffalo is great, Rachel McAdams is great and I hope people will see this and finally take her more seriously as many have just written her off in the past decade, other great performances include Brian D'Arcy James, Liev Schreiber, Billy Crudup, Len Cariou, Jamey Sheridan, and Michael Keaton who does a good job here but I have 0 clue why he is being propped up as this year's Best Supporting Actor winner when he does nothing really to qualify him for even a nomination. The two particular stand outs from the supporting ensemble are Stanley Tucci and John Slattery and Sheridan and Crudup get really great scenes to shine as well. The movie is like a train. You start to get on board in the first 20 min or so and then once the main focus of the story in presented, you are in for the ride until the very end if not even further than the end. I actually kind of want a spinoff TV series with this cast because they were so great together as a team. There were even moments that I needed to use the bathroom but couldn't allow myself to do so because I didn't want to miss a bit of info. Thomas McCarthy has been an impressive director in the past years (I have no comment on his last movie The Cobbler that was panned since I haven't seen it yet but The Visitor and Win Win are really strong movies) and this brings a lot of his talents together in a well oiled machine. It has the simplicity that Win Win and The Visitor have but blending it in with the amazing script and the great ensemble, the machine works excellently in unison. I think my minor quibbles with the movie is that it does take some time to really get captivated with stuff that really didn't need to be explained to me for 20 or so minutes with minor character developments between these character's work relationships and how the whole office works together, I think it could have benefited by jumping right into the action. I also had issues with some of the framing of scenes that ended up with Mark Ruffalo only being scene from his nose down it just looked really awkward but that isn't something too bothersome of an overall strong movie. The movie is quite devastating as it develops more and more into a powerful final sequence showing how many places all over the world have been found guilty of the same things unraveled here, some closer to you than you think. Like I said earlier, this is one of those rare films that you kind of want to do some homework afterwords to discover for yourself if something like this ever happened with your archdiocese, I was a bit reserved on the amount of praise this movie was getting from critics and being lauded as an awards frontrunner because the movie is about journalist and critics (for the most part) are journalist so it is a bit bias but I believe them though I don't know if it will go all the way. This is a must see movie that will make you shake your heads and interject throughout.
Fantastic performances, direction and a tense and engaging story that may not seem like that on the outset.
This movie is utterly ridiculous. To blame an entire religion, instead of indivual people for their actions is just another attempt from the far left to demonize religion. ZERO STARS.
Best movie of the year
Excellent ensemble cast. Great story. A
I would mind see that movie heard classic Academy Award winner I vote for Mark Ruffalo Micheal Keaton Rachel McAdams Liev Schreiber
Must see.  Lest we forget we are doomed to repeat the mistakes if the past. Shatteringly truthful; horrifying in scope.
Almost as good as "All the President's Men"?  Wow. Can't wait to see. And the supporting cast is outstanding
SPOTLIGHT shines bright...

SPOTLIGHT had a great cast ensemble; everyone hitting their marks. Great energy tugging on your every emotion. 

This movie was well put together. And your eyes will not leave the screen particularly because this is based on a true story. Whoa.
In January, 2002, journalists at the "Boston Globe" published a lengthy exposé of the long-term abuse of children by Catholic priests in the Boston Archdiocese. Though the Catholic Church had long denied that it had a problem with pedophiles, claiming that the occasional molestation cases were merely the results of actions by individual priests, the depth of the reporting in the "Globe"'s series proved otherwise, and led to a global realization that the Church had long covered up a culture of sexual abuse of minors, spawning articles in publications far and wide. Dawning horror rightly followed, and we have seen, since then, a lessening of the prestige and infallibility at the root of the Church's power. Less than a year after the first article ran in the "Globe," Boston's Cardinal Law - once seen as infallible, himself - resigned. True, he quickly found a home at the Vatican, but for him to step down in disgrace in a majority Catholic city speaks to the power of the press ... at that time, anyway (ah, 2001 was so long ago ...).

And now we have a film about this epic piece of journalism, directed by master independent filmmaker Tom McCarthy ("The Station Agent"), who actually starred as a reporter, himself (albeit an unscrupulous one), in Season 5 of HBO's "The Wire." With great patience and attention to detail, McCarthy chronicles the hard work done by the four-person investigative team known as "Spotlight." The look and feel of the film mirrors the day-to-day drudgery of the research these men (and one woman) needed to go through in order to dig up the necessary materials for the piece. The procedural nature of McCarthy's direction is almost pedestrian - this is unsexy stuff, folks - which would qualify as a negative if that aesthetic weren't so essential to this particular movie. From the way the journalists dress to the no-nonsense camera work that refuses to draw attention to itself, this is quality filmmaking that places the facts and emotions of the story front and center. The only thing I didn't like was Howard Shore's score, which was mostly distracting and not at all needed; these scenes require no soundtrack.

The ensemble cast is excellent. Michael Keaton ("Birdman"), Mark Ruffalo ("Infinitely Polar Bear"), Rachel McAdams ("Southpaw") and Brian d'Arcy James ("Smash") all star as the members of the Spotlight team, while John Slattery ("Mad Men") and Liev Schreiber ("Ray Donovan") are the editors. Schreiber is Marty Baron, the first Jewish editor of the "Globe," a fact stated a few times in the film and used to imply (by his detractors) that, of course, this man would have it in for the Church (it's Baron's idea to pursue the topic in the first place). Boston, like most big cities, merely masquerades as a cosmopolitan place; at its heart, it's as insular as any small town, and as protective of its own. Stanley Tucci ("Julie and Julia") shows up as a lawyer representing the victims, and, as an ethnic Armenian, drives this point home again: only an outsider would be able to take such a hard look at the facts.

"Spotlight" is a movie that not only tells us the important story of how one driven group of people took down a major institution, but also makes the case for why journalism matters in a democracy. As we have seen since 2001, our major newspapers have suffered major decreases in subscriptions and have yet to find a truly new way forward - in terms of earning revenue - in the digital age of the internet and social media. Clickbait is the word of our day, and while the Church's abuse scandal is just as lurid as any headline you might see in your Facebook "trending" feed, the reason why the "Globe"'s reporters were able to make such a difference is because they had the full support of their superiors, who at that time could afford to pay the salaries of four people dedicated, over many months, to uncovering the truth about one topic. As we move forward, it's worth considering the price we pay, as a society, for the free content we access every day online. Truth is worth paying for.
Great investigation, the sheer numbers harmed are shocking.  Sadð??¢
Another great performance by Michael Keaton.
This was, in my opinion, the best film of this past year.  Gripping and dramatic without resorting to manipulative filmmaking.  Tom McCarthy takes his time with this film, allowing the story to slowly unfold.  Every aspect of the film was top notch:  the acting, writing, design.  Not glossy or slick.  Just honest and ultimately quite devastating,
Excellent film. Highly recommend.
Extremely good story telling. A well recorded battle of morals, ethics, internal conflicts, and one's desire to point fingers and demonize others.
Possibly the best movie of it's kind, certainly since "All the President's Men", Spotlight is very well written, acted, and shot and you will leave the theater both happy and angry at the same time.  This one should be an Oscar contender if there's any justice in the world.  Highly recommended.
In one of the best written films of 2015, Spotlight is the staggering true story of the journalism team at the Boston Globe who were the first to do an in-depth investigation on the Catholic Church covering up abusive priests who molested thousands of children worldwide. Director Tom McCarthy is great at showing the detailed process of investigative reporting and the toll it takes on the Spotlight team. Mark Ruffalo is riveting and sensational as a journalist who will stop at nothing to get the truth out to the public. He is deserving of a Best Supporting Actor Oscar win for his triumphant performance. Spotlight is a compelling true story that is hard to turn away from, and gripping enough to stay with you. A-
Perfect casting & ensemble work. Ruffalo was amazing & deserves recognition during awards season
Great script, casting, direction, actor performances, and cinematography.  Bravo! Like that the focus was on the broken system (people), keeping the faith intact.
Spotlight comes across as remarkably dedicated to it's story by not having many flashy moments. At the same time the lack of excitement and flavor causes the film to be slightly monotone. While overall a solid film and never boring, Spotlight doesn't feel meaningful until the final 15 mins.
So powerfully presented; so poignantly acted.  Spotlight gives you a physiological discomfort without punching you in the face.  It just leaves a sinking feeling in your gut.
Faith, religion is at times is the most powerful thing a person has, faith at times can regulate a persons whole life,some peoples whole life is just about god, and these people look up to certain god men, them being priests, popes etc but at many instances we  see these men take advantage of there power and place, and do things that are unmentionable. Spotlight highlights these unmentionable acts that many churches were hiding to keep there dignity intact. I am not questioning any religion, but what these priests did in 2001 (and before and after that time) was absolutely sickening. Spotlight is based on a true of how priests across America but specifically the Boston area, tracing back to the the 1960s sexually assaulted children from the ages of 5-13. These Roman Catholic/Christian priests  of Boston/America were supposed to spread the word of peace and goodness of the lord, but they took advantage of there power and did something unforgivable. Spotlight is one of those rare films that completely shocks you, makes you think, and leaves very uncomfortable. Spotlight is realistic cinema at its best, this is one of those most superior films I have seen this year, its a film that makes the viewers feel uncomfortable, mad, and in it will move you to tears. I don't have enough adjectives to explain Spotlights brilliance, it 2015's best film till now, and I have no doubt about this. The film has no flaw, the ensemble is brilliant, the films well researched, etc everything is superb. But its film you wish that was never made, because you wish these incidents in the film never occurred. But how long can the truth be hidden for. The film is very disturbing so watch with caution but it completely thought provoking.

Story wise Under the direction of new editor Marty Baron , the Boston Globe's elite investigative team, Spotlight, is tasked with delving into decades worth of child abuse claims against the Catholic Church. Lead by Walter "Robby" Robinson  the journalists begin to uncover a massive network of sexual abuse and willful ignorance perpetrated by the Church within the city of Boston. Facing political opposition and resistance from the far-reaching influence of the Church, the reporters undertake an explosive exposé on the corrupt system. 

This year we have seen many great ensemble casts, but Spotlight has the best ensemble cast by far. Michael Keaton is simply amazing, he gets totally into character, and never acts a false note. His pre climax scene when his old buddy from college tells him to drop the case, and Keaton says Ill quote on what you said, is one of 2015's best sequences. Its a slap in the face. Mark Ruffalo, is a man on a mission in the film, and he steals the show in the film. His relentless act will get him an Oscar nominee for sure.Rachel McAdams  gets one of her most acting orientated roles, and she is superb.Lev Schreiber character is a silent one, but when he speaks, he is the most powerful person on screen.Brian d'Arcy James underplays his role superbly.

There a couple of things that I will take back from Spotlight, that will continue to disturb me for awhile, its rare that a film affects me so such that it haunts my thoughts for so long. I just can't understand how so many churches that spread across the world, would let priests sexually assault children, for centuries, CENTURIES!!! It's absolutely sickening, how Church Leader's tried to hid these sins, by using there power influence, money, and by using the name of the lord. And then these used churches to make money off, by helping them get off cases. Did any of these people have a soul.Thoughts like these keep wandering in my mind. The film leaves you with a eerie feeling that you just can't let go of for awhile. Nevertheless Spotlight is complete brilliance. The films story and screenplay are superb. The film is not glamorized at all, the film is very gritty and real. Its a film based on real, and true facts. Its realistic cinema at its best. The films location, settings, etc are top notch, and nothing feels out of place for 2001. The film has no blemishes at all. The film is a investigative thriller, and it works in all accounts. You are at the edge of your set the whole time, and by the end of the film you are rotund for the Spotlight team. The films highlight is in its superb performances for its ensemble, and being so superbly informative, and so accurate in every aspect of how law works, how the investigation took place.

Overall Spotlight will sweep the Oscars this year because there is no film that stands a chance next to this classic. Its a film which I could call one of my favourites, but I don't know if I want to watch it again, because the stories of those innocent children still haunt me.

5/5* or 10/10
Near perfect telling of a controversial story has riveting performances, and strong direction and writing.
Great cast and good movie ...
there was nothing really that worked for me in this one- director, screenwriter, editor, cinematographer- everything just felt forced and awkward and just brought the whole tone into more uncomfortable technical areas then anything the movie spoke about.
When a stellar cast is assembled for any film, immediate interest ensues (for me at least). Even with a bad script and a terrible story, a cast can make something watchable. Luckily, this is a story worth telling, with a smart script and terrific performances all around. "Spotlight" revolves around the true story back in 2001, when a newspaper investigated the story of multiple priests that had been accused or assumed child molesters. This film keeps you engaged the entire time, but the main gripe I think many moviegoers will face, is that it has a slow pace and seems to go on a little too long to hold everyone's interest. What helps the pace is that the story always stays interesting and I was always enthralled with the story. Whether it was a brutally honest and tragic scene or some comedic relief, this film had it all. From a story and acting standpoint, this is a stellar film all around. The pacing is really what bogs this film down. In the end, "Spotlight" is a terrifically made film that I definitely recommend for people who are intrigued by this story. I do not think it will gain an audience outside of that crowd. "Spotlight" is a great watch.
Yeah definitely deserves that Best Picture nominee, Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams are golden.
I didn't know what to expect from this.
The first half was tedious and nearly put me to sleep, but then as it enveloped and got more into the details - I started to care.
Most of this film is pretty standard though. 
Nothing unique was done from the direction or cinematography. 
The writing was half-good, and the acting was definitely good, but not amazing. 
This is more of a film to see just for a fact-based, check-off-the-box type of storytelling that doesn't seem much like a real film. 
It's premise is astonishing for something I knew really little about, but the plot and film itself just didn't do too much service for me.
Exceptional...attention getter from start to finish!!!
This is an incredibly complicated and important story to tell.  A monumental task, much like the work done by the reporters in a secretive department called Spotlight at the Boston Globe.   The writers and directors pull it off flawlessly.  Add some terrific performances by Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton and you now have a very Oscar worthy movie.  You will leave the theatre frustrated and angry at the systematic cover ups perpetrated by the Catholic Church. ..which is the point....and will also wonder how yourself and nobody new of the enormity of the abuse that was finally uncovered.  I was on the edge of my seat for the entire movie.  Incredibly acted and directed.
At its heart the quintessential ensemble film, McCarthy is very much focused on the investigative journalistic process circa Y2K, which shapes the very plot-driven film.  The screenplay thus leaves very little in the way of character development, keeping the action rather continuous and sweeping.   There is at times moments for actual contemplation about the whole weight of the issue at hand (Ruffalo, Keaton and Tucci), but these scenes are more "breathing spots" that segue-way to the next path of investigation. 

Watching the film, one can only wonder how a story (and subject matter) would have been handled just 10 years later in a more digital-based industry (more or less swiftly?).  Ultimately, McCarthy wants the viewer to understand that bricks-and-mortar journalism will always have a place in matter regardless of era or  issue at hand.
A stellar ensemble sells a strong script that doesn't bop the viewer on the nose with the enough-said obviousness of the injustices at work here.  It's a nice ode to the elbow grease and determination of journalism and the forces that beat on integrity along the way.  It also humanizes the focal journalists enough to see how a story that big - the now infamous child abuse scandals in the Catholic church - affects each one of them in different, jarring, personal ways.  With that grounded approach for our protagonists and the narrative momentum inherent with needing to pull the curtains back on this awful phenomena, the movie was engaging and mostly stirring throughout.  Strong film.
so frustrating to watch because I don't understand how people allowed this to happen for so long.. the very ones who are supposed to be the voice of reason ruining the lives of children for what, their messed up pleasure? great film, but I'm losing faith in humanity by the second
Fascinating movie! Mark Ruffalo is definitely getting a Best Actor nomination next year.
OMG will never have the same meaning!
The 3x5 floppy and AOL billboard production design nuggets might have topped the cast, but only by a c-hair.
This movie has a wholly unstylized approach to its subject, which in a way makes it journalistic and truer to its source material. Nothing is overly "cinematic" about Spotlight, which lets the vital details come through clearly. I'm glad this incredibly important story is reaching audiences in a new way.
"Spotlight" tells the horrific story of a sex scandal that manages to provide plenty of realistic and scary moments that will keep you intrigued, yet shocked.

"Spotlight" follows the story of a Boston Globe investigation into the case of a Catholic sex scandal involving a priest. As they look deeper into the case, they will have to fight through many overwhelming battles, as we get to watch how the story unfolds at the palm of our hands.

To start out, I want to give congrats to this movie for the realistic elements that it brought to the table. It managed to tell this story in an honorable way, and one that really justified what these people did for the United States. This movie feels very real in every way, and it feels like I'm there with these characters rather than watching them. Considering the nature of the story and its factual basis, the director and writers approached this story in a respectable manner, and I would be missing out if I hadn't seen this film.

The acting in this movie truly is a sight to see. Considering this movie feels very real and tamed, the acting that goes with it must match. There are a lot of big name actors in here, but they manage to make me forget about their names, and I see them as actual people. The amount of effort these actors/actresses put into it was great, and I felt like I was watching the actual people go through the actual situation. I felt like Mark Ruffalo's performance stood out the most, but all around, the cast was perfect. You have Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber,  Stanley Tucci, and more. What else could you ask for?

Let me get one thing straight, and it's that nothing really flashy happens in this movie. This is a film that is meant to depict a true story and it sticks to its facts. It doesn't over exaggerate anything and people who find dialogue and story telling dis-interesting will be bored out of their minds. I'll admit, this film had some boring moments where literally nothing was happening, so many people will be bothered by this.

The beginning felt kind of slow and flat to me, as nothing really had much purpose. As things started to unravel and they started getting deeper into the case, I was more interested, but until then, the movie wasn't mind blowing by any means.

You should probably watch this movie for the story alone, as there are many great aspects to it. There were multiple times where my jaw was on the ground and the revelations in this case were shocking. I never realized the severity of the situation, and this movie really does take its subject seriously.

There are even a few emotional and very deep moments that really make you think a lot. What these reporters did was huge, as they really helped point out a major corruption within the United States, and they truly deserve recognition. Knowing that these victims actually went through these situations and had to deal with this emotional agony affected me in many ways, and my heart goes out to those who had to live through this.

In the end, "Spotlight" is a quality production with many great aspects. I certainly had a great time with it, even if it was slightly underwhelming for my expectations. However, I feel as though this is the kind of film that will get better as time goes on, but for now, it will earn a solid 4 stars.
Good movie - very pleased
Best movie I've seen all year!
It's hard to even point to what this movie did wrong, because everything just seems so right.  Pitch perfect performances, intriguing storyline, and great writing.  We may know the outcome, but it's nevertheless riveting as any thriller I have seen.
Potentially another oscar contending year for Michael Keaton. Spotlight is easily one of the best flicks this year. Proof that real journalism sheds light on important issues. Young film enthusiasts need to see this movie for a look at what drama really means.
Best film I have seen in a while, likely to win best picture for this year. Mark Ruffalo was exceptional, and is becoming one of my favorite actors. The story , while we all knew the story, was still presented extremely well on screen and kept me engaged in the film from start to finish. Superbly done.
decent movie, interesting and shocking story, well-made and well-acted. Just not my kind of movie (1 viewing)
Amazing movie! Greatly told
Great film all the way around
Filmmaking & storytelling at its best.
My vote for best picture for 2015 will be going to this movie, Spotlight.  "It takes a village to abuse a child."  should go down in movie quote history.  CDW
A numbingly good film of a chilling tale. Well done to Tom McCarthy for pitching it at the right level; cumulatively pulls you into the story in an understated, almost matter-of-fact way. The cast was well chosen and I thought Stanley Tucci and Liev Schreiber were outstanding. A well written script. This film will stay in my memories.
Outstanding film about the expose of Catholic priests in Boston that preyed on children for decades without church accountability. Great cast, superb acting and exceptional directing makes  two hours breeze by in a flash. One of the best journalistic films since "All the President's Men." Should be a slam dunk Oscar nominee.
One of the best films of the year!!!
Detailing the events leading up to the Globe's title piece on systemic sexual abuse by priests and cover-up thereof within the Boston archdiocese of the Catholic church, this is great. I don't want to get into too many details, but if you get a chance go watch this. Excellent performances all around, although being very much an ensemble piece it's hard to single out a single member of the core 4 (Keaton, Ruffalo, Adams, D'Arcy) as being the lead. It does a good job of simply portraying the reporters not as heroes, but simply doing their job, and even levels some critiques at them for not spotting the information earlier. Were I to fault this, it's that it's very much an "Oscar" movie, but I must stress that is not in and of itself a bad thing. This takes it's story, and tells it extremely well.
Very powerful. Very important.
"Spotlight" is an investigative newspaper journalism film who's  great ensemble cast (Keaton, Slattery, Ruffalo, McAdams et al)  all play second fiddle to the star of the film, investigative  reporting itself.  Emotional and never cloying, the film paints a big story effectively and economically.
Imposible ver esta pelicula y no salir con un sentimiento asqueante y repulsivo hacia personas que dicen ser de Dios y solo son demonios en cuerpo y alma.
It brings out the bigger picture--the cult of secrecy that begins when seminarians join the priesthood.  It's also an outstanding story about how journalism--as opposed to "dictation" is essential in our society.
Tense and dramatic. Probably my favorite movie of the year. It shows why we need newspapers and not just blogs.
On the surface 'Spotlight' is about the cover up of institutional child molestation inside an organized religion. More importantly, it's about good investigative journalism. In the age of Gawker, Buzz Feed and Fox News, it's important to remember that the best stories aren't always quick and easily digestible.

Overall it's a good ensemble performance with very few grandstanding moments.
it's a good ride, but the direction is lackadaisical and there is not much for the actors to do but keep the story moving forward. i will say i barely looked at my watch, and i agree with others that the movie avoided a self-righteous and gratuitous tone to which it could have easily succumbed.
This might be the smartest and most focused film of the year. Many people of my generation take this event for granted but Spotlight reminds us that this shook the Catholic Church and the Boston community to the core. Smartly acted by Keaton, McAdams, Ruffalo and Tucci, the film never glamorizes any aspect of the investigation. The reporters aren't super-spies risking their lives. The victims aren't exploited for audience-tears and their pain isn't put on display to shock you. But it's the handling of the Catholic church's role in the investigation/cover-up that Spotlight nails. Not at any time does the film damn the Vatican or Catholics for the actions of its clergy, but neither does it excuse the actions of the guilty parties.

Make no mistake: This is not a thriller, nor is it docu-drama. This is smart, focused, intelligent story-telling with a great ensemble cast that pulls you into it's story and never lets go.
This movie is a celebration of journalism. 
It tells us how the an institution that stood up for peace, faith, and love can do the most destructive, unbelievable, and hateful acts. 
The story spotlight uncovers did not  affect the main characters in the movie, but  rather it affected the way we see the world or at least the church.
 Every actor and actress in this film delvers a grand performance. Even the characters that are only there for five minutes will impact the movie because of the amazing acting. From now on all other movies of the same genre will be compared to Spotlight
So powerful, gripping, and heart wrenching. very well acted. an important story told very well
Exceptional story and movie.
Watching the Deliver Us from Evil documentary killed the revealing and shocking facts of the catholic institution for me. A film that doesn't hollywoodize the source material too much and makes the portrayals believable.
Mark Ruffalo overacted a tad, but Michael Keaton, the script, and directing were on the record.

A-
sluggish first half hour but this movie is both informative and frightening while delivering powerful performances from every cast member on e of those movies everyone should watch once
5 out of 5 stars.  An exceptional film, that will be viewed as this generation's "All the President's Men."  It may be the Best Picture Oscar winner for 2015, along with Best Director for Tom McCarthy and Supporting Actor for Michael Keaton.  Mark Ruffalo will also be recognized, although with top billing, he may be in the lead category, despite the ensemble nature of the cast work.

"Spotlight" is superbly written, acted and directed with dozens of actors making strong impressions, even in one-scene roles.  It's about a "big" issue - the Catholic Church cover up of priests molesting children in Boston.  Eventually the scandal rocked the Vatican's reputation worldwide.  However, the sordid nature of the topic is dealt with in a dignified & serious manner, so the film is never salacious or exploitative, where in lesser hands, it could have been.

The film is also an ode to investigative journalism, a rapidly vanishing profession of going for the deeper systemic story, not just the glossy superficial veneer of today's standard coverage.  The four-journalist Spotlight team begins casually on the story only to become obsessed with finding justice as the corruption widens into thousands of victims molested by dozens of priests.  Set in 2001-02, the period details are right, although this is not a film that will win Costume or Production Design awards, because it is more interested in the content than the look it's recreating.

Because of the subject matter and the serious depiction, this is not a blockbuster film as many Marvel or Disney films are this year.  It is a film that will be respected by all who see it, but not adored because this is a topic that makes everyone uncomfortable.  But if you like great writing, acting & directing, it is definitely an experience you will find rewarding.
The pedophile priest scandal was very bad. And sadly, so is this movie. Most critics love it. They're wrong. It was billed as a "thriller". It's not. No suspense at all.  It views more like a cartoon take-down of the evil Catholic Church (insert cheers here). And the acting is solid wood: The big shot at high emotion is the "It's Time!" (to destroy Cardinal Law) speech by Ruffalo's character, and, as Oscar Wilde might have put it, you'd have to have a heart of stone not to laugh at the overwrought dramatics. 

And some niggling questions remain: Has there ever been an infantile priest like the one in this movie who confesses his crime to Rachel McAdam - on the doorstep in mere seconds! Is Rachel's character guilty of elder abuse when she shows her dear old grannie, a three-times-a-week church-goer, the shocking news about the scandal in her church? That little silent scene must be the most ludicrous polemical overkill in the history of movies. And why is Michael Keaton's character surprised that so many people call in claiming clerical abuse after the big story breaks? Isn't he supposed to be a hard-nosed journo?

Oh, Oscar, Oscar! Sort it all out for us, please.
So well acted, compelling story.  Engaged from beginning to end...
Exceptionally well made and acted.
Spotlight is an incredibly interesting story of a scandal, that involves several twists and turns that keep you interested in the story and engaged with the characters. Though I felt too many people were named, which meant lots of memorisation and a bit of confusion, I feel Spotlight is a realistic, fascinating film that features great acting, especially from Ruffalo, Schreiber and Tucci, and great camera work. Easily an Oscar contender for 2016.
A true story about an investigation that unveiled 670 confirmed pedophile priests throughout the world.  Over a thousand reported victims. The reportage this film is based on won the Pulitzer Prize.  "Spotlight" is a landmark movie that highlights the fighting spirit of journalism and is one hell of a knockout motion picture.
This is the best kind of procedural drama, where the director and company tie all the strands of a complex story together without losing the audience for a moment.  With six strong supporting actors and not one of them playing lead, this is also the purest and most exciting performance ensemble that you'll find at the multiplex.  
Facts and clues and victims unfold at a growing pace as you listen in on interviews with corrupt lawyers, pedophiles, and long-suffering victims until It reaches all the way to the Vatican.  
Spotlight plays like a detective thriller but also succeeds at resonating on a deep emotional level.  It's exciting and exquisitely written and directed, but the heart and soul of the film lies in the real-life survivors and the reporters who all put their lives on hold in a desperate attempt to tell the whole truth.  
Spotlight ranks as one of the year's finest.  Highly recommended.
A very well told, but awfully slow story of what happens when people don't matter
Preachy (no pun intended), forced, self-righteous, and yet another movie that demonizes religion. I'm not  all that religious, and yet even I'm getting sick of this denigrating, Hollywood trend.

There is some good acting to be had here, though. Michael Keaton, in particular, is enjoying a deserved renaissance. For the life of me, however, I do not understand the appeal of Mark Ruffalo. Besides just being generally annoying, I just don't find him to be a convincing actor.
"Spotlight" is a massively gripping film about the true bombshell investigation of the Archdiocese of Boston and the Catholic Church and their efforts to cover up the abuse by priests. Based on true events, a select group of reporters called Spotlight from the Boston Globe do the unthinkable: take on the oldest institution in the world. It is shocking how much power the Church has over the United States legal system and it is on full display here.

Led by an all-star ensemble that compliments one another so well, "Spotlight" not only does a phenomenal job sticking to true events, but it handles the facts with such delicacy and delivers them slowly and appropriately as you learn how important it is for journalists to gather everything before releasing the information; instead of trying to be the first to the story and reporting it wrongly. 

However, the most important thing about "Spotlight" is that it does justice for its real-life victims and brings the much needed attention to the continuous abuse controversies with the Church.
Knocked me on my ass. Mark Ruffalo had me riveted, with his portrait of a reporter possessed by a story that keeps getting deeper and more disturbing. The understated intensity of the story had me locked in the entire time.
Saw it - loved it.  Even living through those times and thinking you won't learn anything new, you will.  Acting is superb.  Riveting.  Don't miss this.  An unfortunate story of our times, but a true story.
This is, quite simply, the best movie I've ever seen. (I see a lot of movies.) My friend and I both had the same reaction: Films this good are the reason we go to theaters. So, go. Buy no popcorn. This thing will rip you apart but you will be glad you saw it.
Great cast - well written story - amazing acting.
I'm a fan of any movie that makes heroes out of journalists and this one is truly exceptional.

I would place this up with the likes of 'All the President's Men' as one of the greatest investigative journalism movies of all time. The cast is rock solid and the script nails the tough subject matter without ever grandstanding or pandering for easy sympathy. 

A definite must see.
A Must See for everyone! Extremely well acted, directed, a true story told so well by an extremely talented and believable cast.
Perfectly told story. An important story - that needed to be told.  But...  I'm not sure it warranted a movie.  Every actor shined, especially Ruffalo, but as I walked out, I felt informed.  That's it. Glad and appreciative, but not enthralled.
Never has a movie made me want to go read the newspaper article it is based on.
Extraordinary in every way!
SPOTLIGHT is just about the best docudrama since ZODIAC eight years ago.  Low-key, intelligent, very gripping in its quiet way, with a superb ensemble cast at the top of their game--Liev Schreiber, Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Billy Crudup, Rachel McAdams, Len Cariou.
Spotlight is a very interesting and important film to see. Not like a typical Oscar-Bait movie whatsoever.
An early addition to The Oscar list of top movies.  The rapid fire journey of the Boston Globe investigative journals keeps you engaged and invested in the ultimate running of the story.  ALL of the actors deliver especially Stanley Tucci in an unusual role for him.
Great movie about journalism as it should be. Speaking truth to power.
'Spotlight' doesn't grandstand with cheap emotion or exploitation. It just tells the best newspaper and reporting movie since 'Zodiac' and 'All the President's Men'. A deep, amazingly great cast stars in this enthralling and sobering drama that unfolds like a great detective novel. Recent newspaper movies are cheap, 'Spotlight' is one of the best written movies about newspapers, good vs. evil and the frailty of human nature. This is one of the best written movies of the decade, period!
Relatively interesting, but none of it is really shocking - even though it is to the characters involved. Not a fault of the actors, but of the screenplay relying on shock value of something this recent and well publicized.
Did SPOTLIGHT deserve to win Best Picture at this year's Academy Awards? Maybe, I guess. I still haven't seen all of the nominees yet, but even still I recognize that SPOTLIGHT is an excellent film. Based on true events, it tells how the Boston Globe broke the story about a massive cover-up of pedophile priests in the Catholic Church. It also features an incredible ensemble cast who, although not given much to do individually, work great together in service of a very compelling (and saddening) story. Out of the five actors given top billing, I would say that Liev Schreiber and Mark Ruffalo fare the best, although the rest of the cast don't slouch by any means. Rachel McAdams is perhaps the weakest out of the bunch, but even she mostly holds her own. Far and away, the most important takeaways are the devotion to pursuing the truth no matter where it leads you, as well as the integrity necessary in investigative journalism. Some people have called this the greatest journalism movie since ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, but I still need to see that in order to make such a comparison. Briefly touching on other matters, I thought the score and cinematography were quite adequate enough to elevate this beyond something that would normally play as a made-for-HBO movie. In particular, I liked the use of substantial tracking shots, which visually reinforced the winding and interconnected paths that the Globe's spotlight team go on in pursuit of their story. Ultimately, there is a lot in here that could shake one's faith in humanity and human institutions, particularly religion, however I never felt like they demonized anyone. It merely acknowledged the imperfections and, some of the time, willful negligence of said institutions and the communities they serve, while also aspiring to better accountability in both. Best Picture winner or not, SPOTLIGHT is hands down one of the best that 2015 had to offer.
A riveting and compelling movie about the real newspaper reporters to crack the Catholic Priest scandal in Boston starring Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Liev Schreiber, Rachel McAdams, Stanley Tucci and more. Great performances by all, but Tucci and Ruffalo's really stand out and should garner award nominations for sure. Definitely worth seeing!
Movie is very acting driven but reminds me of a boring Tennessee Williams play
Una de las mejores películas del año. Apasionante.  Elegante. Inteligente. Relata la magnífica labor periodística sobre el abuso sexual de menores en la Iglesia Católica y las responsabilidades de todos sus involucrados: la iglesia, la policía, el sistema legal, los medios de comunicación, la sociedad, los familiares de las víctimas, etc. Una historia importante con un estupendo guión sobre el valor del periodismo. Su ensamble de actores es brillante. Un aplauso para esta película. De pie, por supuesto.
Very tastefully done considering the subject matter. Great cast-- Michael Keaton (always so at ease, perfectly at home in the character), Brian d'Arcy James, Stanley Tucci (really stands out). I don't think it's the best film of the year though.
Powerful movie with an important story to tell. Great cast. Disgusting that such atrocities were covered up on such a large scale, all over the world, and allowed to continue. Praise goes to the journalists that don't give up and expose the truth!
It was kind of dry and I found it to be rehashing old news
Russelling Reviews: 
Spotlight - Disturbing brilliance

"It takes a village to raise children, but it also takes a village to abuse them. "

A modern travesty that was first exposed in Boston by the team called Spotlight. 

http://russellingreveiws.blogspot.com.au/2015/11/spotlight-disturbing-brilliance-4-stars.html
Thrilling and inspiring!  The screenplay, the direction, and the acting are all excellent.
Spotlight is a pragmatic and clear headed approach to investigative journalism. Director Tom McCarthy (The Station Agent, The Visitor, Win Win) and his co-writer Josh Singer (TV's The West Wing) do not sensationalize the subject. For example, there are no flashback scenes of the abuse. Discussions with the now adult victims are carefully handled as fact finding interviews. At one point, a man only offers he was "molested" as a boy. Rachel McAdams as reporter Sacha Pfeiffer, gracefully presses that he needs to be more specific as that word can have a variety of meanings to different people. Our witness to the rest of their conversation ends there. In a later scene, Sacha knocks on the door of another former clergy member: Father Ronald H. Paquin (Richard O'Rourke). Their brief, matter-of-fact interaction is one of the most memorable dialogues in the entire film. It stays with you because it reveals so much in mere mommets. The trust we place in trusted figures of authority, the role of journalists to report the news, the way scandals affect our faith, the lasting effects of sexual abuse - Spotlight touches on all of these issues and more in a 128 minute runtime that flies by. It does all this in the guise of a straightforward drama. The account could have been about almost any report, as long as it were true. The nature of this story obviously gives the chronicle an emotional component, but Spotlight is somewhat dispassionate. Yet that weakness of sorts is also its strength. The drama is efficient, objective and direct and that's exactly what good news journalism should be.

fastfilmreviews.com
The movie is organized well, the acting is incredible, but the story that was uncovered by The Boston Globe "Spotlight" team is half of why this movie is memorable.
Spotlight is a great movie with good acting and an engaging story. Its pace, which is fine for most of the movie, works against it near the end when the movie feels like it should have ended twenty minutes earlier. Otherwise, a good watch.
The most emotional movie I have seen in 2015. The fact that it is true is more troubling.
Another really good movie that needs  to bee seen by more people!
Outstanding. Fine acting, superbly written. A heart breaking story told with empathy and class. A sure Oscar contender.
An amazing film! Go see it!
Might be best movie I've seen all year. Excellent performances top to bottom. I love when you already know the outcome but still stay riveted to the story.
Not many movies are required viewing, but this is required viewing. If you grew up in the Catholic Church, you have to to watch this. Amazing film making and story telling
Incredible subject matter. Incredible film.
Very enjoyable and always love to see the based on true story movies
I just saw this terrific film... on a Sunday afternoon, the large theater was sold out. The audience, myself included, was spell bound. This reminded me of All the President's Men... very similar in theme and just as good, very thought and conversation provoking.  Mark Ruffalo may have given the performance of his lifetime. 

Nowadays there aren't a lot of "big" intelligent dramas being made by the studios, but hopefully this film will inspire others to green light some movies for grownups to be made and released throughout the year. You could just tell that this engrossed audience was just what they'd been craving after a year of nonsense and special effects dominating the cineplex.
Spotlight is great entertainment. It has a high-concept story based on real events-reporters exposing the powerful Catholic Church in the most embarrassing way imaginable-and a great ensemble cast.  A new editor, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) at the Boston Globe asks the Spotlight team of reporters played by Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams to check out pedophile priests. At first they resist: the paper has covered it before and a former victim with boxes of documentation they dismiss as a nut.  Prodded by Baron to stick with the story, they eventually uncover the shocking truth that six per cent of Catholic priests are pedophiles and that the Church simply moves them from parish to parish.  Church and civic leaders try to make the story go away.  But these same award-winning reporters are hardly blameless: they failed to blow the whistle years earlier.
Cast is perfect in this nearly perfect movie. What a subject, hard to fathom, but it's real and it's still happening.
The movie (and actors) do a great job of telling the story of Boston, and the influence and awesome power the Catholic church once had in the city.

It then shows how the cold and cowardly Catholic church used the "power of God" to protect and hide and move known pedophile priests tried, in 100% of cases, and they knew exactly what they were doing.  This was organized crime, by the most gutless gangsters.

One thing they don't mention is that this is enabled by something Catholics invented called "confession", in which a priest can confess his child rape to another and get completely forgiven in 15 minutes (in brutal defiance of Jesus in Matt 18:6, by the way).  However, now the new priest that heard the confession knows he can get away with it.  This caused pedophilia to run rampant through Boston and the Catholic church, where there were at least 249 known pedophile priests, and over 1,000 victims.  

However, there were probably at least 1,000 priests that heard these "confessions" each time any of the 249 raped a child, so the institution knew, and still does and hides it today.

It is chilling to hear the interview with Fr Pacquin, who readily admits to the Globe that he molested a bunch of children, as if it was no big deal because all the other priests were doing it, too.

The movie shows how hard it was to get the truth out of the Catholic church, which intentionally protected these pedophiles, moving them to new locations where their evil wouldn't be known, never warning the new community, and sometimes not even warning their own Catholic leaders.

This pedophile protection came from the top, from Cardinal Law, (and undoubtedly the pope) and was passed throughout the hierarchy, which worked like the Nazis, just doing what they were told, despite Jesus in Matt 18:6-14.

You can feel the awesome power of the Catholic church, which they use at every opportunity to get away with evil, and never to help children.  The characters in the movie are sickened by the truth, and the intention of the organization to protect every child rapist, with no regard for the victims.

This is an organized crime movie, without the honor of the mafia.
A film that really does deserve Best Picture. Spotlights what real investigative reporting can turn up in a world of sound bite journalism that dominates the news today.
Captivating, smart and important. How often do you hear that in today's cinema?
Very well done movie about a disturbing reality... What's even more disturbing is the number of places in this world listed at the end where this is still an issue.
Amazing movie with a great cast, but a heartbreaking, jaw dropping story!
Mark Ruffalo!!! Stole the show.
There's nothing about this film that isn't spot on.
Spotlight is a movie that is about information, yes it's also about the infamous scandal within the Catholic Church as well as the brave news team (and paper) that decided to against one of the oldest, most powerful organizations in history, but it's also about information. To clarify, Spotlight feels like a film that feels based around facts and knowledge and discovering them, Aaron Sorkin did this sort of thing with The Social Network, discovering new technology or a new world that most people didn't really understand and bringing us into it. Spotlight is similar, but it takes it in a different direction. Instead it takes us into a world that we have all come to know too well, when the evils that the church was covering up were revealed it became everything from the spark of protests to the butt of jokes. Spotlight is taking us back to when it was discovered but also shows us the magnitude of this scandal, the hidden horrors behind every good cause that can be gigantic. Yet it's not just about discovering information and simply about condemnation, but it's also a story about the importance of discovering information. The film mainly follows the Spotlight team, sparing little expense for their personal lives, how could it when there's so much information that needs to be calculated and compiled into the script which plays out everything we need to know and that we find interesting. It follows along the lines of introducing us to fact after fact that the Spotlight team discovers through many different fascinating methods. The screenplay which is one of the best of this year takes a story of such density and such complexity and brings it to life before our eyes, and it does so in such capable hands. The director clearly had this in mind, McCarthy goes for a straightforward style with his approach within the film, it's pace, stillness, and necessity is what guides his film. It's the kind of story that doesn't exactly requires a straightforward kind of presentation, it tries to tell it as it is through it's visuals rather than tell it's story through them. In most films this would be understand as sloppy, poorly done filmmaking but not so here. Looking at the staging, the choice of camera position, and the urge to (as Sasha puts it in the film) to tell the story right. Guided by a stellar cast with few weak points and Keaton who is making his comeback last more than just an under-appreciated performance but now has thrust himself into a role that's the definition of great acting, he doesn't act but allows himself to be absorbed into the film, he's a human being who is almost indistinguishable from Keaton himself. He heads the acting ensemble despite his lack of leading role and is supported by his fellow cast mates. Putting all of this together we get Spotlight, a deftly written, impeccably crafted showcase of modern filmmaking that is easily one of the year's best.
A good investigative journalist movie about the Catholic Church scandal. I couldn't help but feel that the story needed a little more conflict but overall good film and easy to watch.
An incredibly well made movie. The performances are so real and so perfectly spot on. Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, and Michael Keaton were standouts in an amazing cast
One of the best most important films of 2015. Thank you for once again bringing a subject about The Catholic Church Pedophilia issues into the light. 5 Star. Love Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams. ++++
The story behind Spotlight is about as dark and challenging as they get. That being said it is a film everybody should see as the story is extremely important. Spot light does an outstanding job showcasing the world of investigative journalism while not making the journalists seem like super heroes. It is one of those rare adapted stories that does the source material justice.
Amazing story. A must see
Amazing! Must see movie of the year!
Great ensemble cast.
Excellent movie with an important story to tell.  Great ensemble cast. This is one of the best movies of the year.
	The most accurate description of the investigative process since All the Preseident's Men - aptly abstaining from narrative crutches and an attempt to make heroes out of people doing their jobs - McCarthy's film triumphs in structure, style and storytelling.
Well done. It was tasteful was exposing what really happened.
Wow! First I have to say that this film dealt with a very disturbing topic but it is an important one that everyone should know about. This film was handled in a diplomatic way with a great cast of actors. I was blown away by this film and can definitely see why it was nominated for film of the year. It's just a shame this only had a limited release
There is nothing elegant about this film as it peels back layer after layer of nauseating facts. It's not cinematically beautiful. It doesn't make you fall in love with the characters. However, its cool methodical approach provides snapshots to the emotional journey of the investigative reporters, the families, and most importantly the victims of abuse. Thankfully it does not sensationalize the grotesque acts of physical and psychological abuse perpetrated and covered up by a trusted institution. Instead, it calmly peels back each layer for us to clearly understand what can happen when blind institutional faith takes priority over basic human decency.
Impressively nuanced.
Another big, boring, blockbuster. Amazing that such a fascinating story could be made to be so slow and tedious. And where were the production values? Flat lighting, mediocre sets, and the dullest costumes possible. Poor Rachel McAdams in those awful khakis.
It seems that I saw a different movie than all the other reviewers.
Mark Ruffalo , Michael Keaton and company  makes a great cover of a terrified story in this film. is totally interesting and worth seen
A terrific film telling a devastating story. Everyone should see it.
So, I was a little on the younger side (10-12), and at a Catholic grade school when all of this blew up. Not only in Boston, but in my diocese of Cleveland. I remember it being a big deal, but also it not being really acknowledged. I can honestly say that this movie opened up my eyes to how truly terrible this epidemic was/still is. The depth of it is truly astounding. This also shed light on how the big systems (think government, big businesses, the church, etc.) control so many aspects of our lives. It took an outsider coming into this paper to really take stock of what was going on and push for the story. Basically, this movie made me do a lot of thinking. So, I guess its safe to say that this is a really well-made movie. The acting is great, the pacing is really tight, and the writing is awesome. Something I really respected was that the writing didn't fall into any movie traps. There was no character with a harrowing back story with a priest, and the facts weren't stretched to make it more "interesting". The story of these reporters was told truthfully, in the same way that they told their story, truthfully and to the point. Basically, I have a lot of respect for this movie and I believe that it deserves every nomination it received.
It never tries to assert itself as more important than the subject matter its tackling, and is all the more real and heartbreaking because of it.
Spotlight is a well written, well acted and a well directed drama of a real fact-based story that exposes one of biggest scandals of history of the catholic church. The Director Tom McCarthy builds a intriguing narrative that involves the audience with a shocking and horrifying revelations. Plus: The cast is marvelous. (4,5/5)
An often powerful, albeit conventional, ensemble drama, that should be a shoe-in for awards season front-runner. Dealing with some rather harrowing subject matter, Spotlight refrains from being off-putting by having the riveting nature of a good piece of journalism. Tom McCarthy directs the film with a 70s-esque sense (certain to give it even more comparisons to All the President's Men), and commands great performance from his troupe of thespians. It's too much of a stereotypical "awards picture" for me to call it masterful, but it is a fully necessary film that calls for action against the atrocities of the Church.
This movie follows the Boston Globe investigative reporters who broke the Catholic priest molestation scandal. A terrific cast of veteran actors play the reporters and the film does a good job of tracking the true developments in the case.  Since the blogosphere has essentially killed real investigative reporters, it is good to get a look at what is lost by this occupation disappearing. The contrast between how the story was investigated here and the more shoddy reporting showcased in the recent "Truth" is striking also.  This was a very good film.
http://filmclassjunkies.com/2015/11/08/spotlight-review/
An intelligent and gripping movie, packed with great performances.
I saw a screening with a director and screenwriter Q&A afterwards. Since it was my first time going to a Q&A for a film, I was very excited so it's possible some of that excitement transferred into my rating. But there is no doubt in my mind that Spotlight was, at the very least, a very good movie.
A great modern Journalistic drama, that doesnt bring anything new to the topic and case it's handling. But masterfully directed and with good performances. Solid flick
Fascinating story on investigative reporting behind the Catholic Church crisis
This movie deserves a "Best Picture" nomination.
A must see!  Stop spending your money on crap and go see this movie!!
Story wise this is a great film and it leaves the audience completely overwhelmed by the extent of the abuse and cover-up.

That being said, would it have killed the director and the producer to add some passion to the acting and some type of musical overture? The cheap and obvious attempts during the actual movie to be classified as a "thriller" were just flat out crap!
Not a wasted moment.
Spotlight carries an aura of authenticity that is intense and heartbreaking.  Masterfully presented, this story deals with a very disturbing subject with grace and honesty.
Shamelessly hits all the newsroom cliches and features some mannered performances - I'm looking at you Ruffalo, Keaton - but the riveting script builds to a big, emotional payoff. Best of the year. And why we'd better save a few #$%@ newspapers.
This is probably the best movie to come out this year.  Do not miss this one.
Deeply engrossing, restrained, well acted.
60%
The straightforward Spotlight makes for a well-acted and moving film, even if the subject matter doesn't quite resonate as much as it should.

V: 89%
The best movie about investigative journalism since All the President's Men; deftly handles its sensitive subject matter with grace.  Compelling, top notch filmmaking complimented by a superb cast.
Very good movie!
Great cast that tells the story in a fair way.
As a Catholic I was concerned this wouldn't be the case but instead was greatly surprised to see that it wasn't just a "look how bad these priest were" piece.

Instead it took the tack that the story of these reporters band their efforts was important.
Brilliantly directed, filmed, written & acted. A well earned perfect score. 
The Catholic Church deserves this retelling. People always refer to the atrocities of war crimes, yet few would point to the Catholic Church for the atrocities they heaped upon thousands of innocent children, children betrayed by men of God.
Spotlight does justice to an incredible true story through its faith towards and deep understanding of the real events. It's eye opening to witness the discovery of this massive scandal with the catholic church, showing just how important investigative journalism is. 

The film has quite the ensemble cast with some really good performances. Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo really capture the essence of their characters (I'd know because we saw them at an interview after the screening) and closely embody many details including speech and physical mannerisms. Liev Schreiber and Stanley Tucci were also standouts with their characters. Rachel McAdams was good, too, but she's not doing anything we haven't seen her do before. There isn't quite a main character in the film, and we don't go very deep into any particular character. This is mostly forgivable because what the characters are tackling is much bigger than they are. Even though we don't feel the story much through any particular character, we feel it effectively as a whole. That isn't to say that the performances lack depth, however. Several of the actors do a great job of conveying a passion for justice in their work, particularly Keaton and Ruffalo, who are the clear and equal standouts in the film. 

Thomas MacCarthy is great at making the audience feel like they're really experiencing this investigation as it unfolds. It's hard to find wasted screen time as the story is constantly moving. The screenplay, which is apparently incredibly accurate, is concise and full of intelligent and witty dialogue that propels each minute of this thriller paced drama. Watching the film, we are put right in the center of several major discoveries like just how big of a problem child molestation is in the Catholic Church and how the church has gotten an entire country to sweep the scandal under the rug. It shows how such a large situation can go unnoticed by the word, despite its massive size, and this is a shocking discovery that we make as the Spotlight crew does. 

The film is a perfect homage to investigative journalism, honoring the heroes of the Spotlight team and the victims who come forward to help justice surface. Spotlight shows that the time to act is the time when you're told to keep your mouth shut. It would be hard to imagine a film depicting the many layers of how this story was uncovered and celebrating those who sought out the truth better than Spotlight does. 

The broad approach certainly pays off in a satisfying way, but I can't help but feel that the film may have been even more moving if it took a more intimate approach. It's a slight loss that we don't really connect with any characters, especially when it's clear that the film could have done so without diminishing the overall impact. Still, Spotlight gets so much right that it's hard to complain. This is a really incredible story and it's great to feel that MacCarthy and his crew know it.
Historical masterpiece! Remarkable triumph!
Good movie, though it lacked some suspense. It could've been better.
Spotlight is amazing and has 96% on Rotten Tomatoes!  This is the movie to see this weekend (in Boston/NYC/LA).  Wide release is soon to follow friends in other cities!  Go see Spotlight!
Right there with All the President's  Men and very Oscar worthy for Best Picture consideration .
Well-acted and well-developed movie that touches a subject that is almost impossible to do as well as it was here.  Ruffalo is, as usual, outstanding, while Keaton should have another Oscar nomination.  Anytime you get an AOL reference in a movie, it's that much better.

Classy, but not a spectacular movie.
Unbelievable. Must see for all Catholics Also see Mia Maxima Culpa Silence in the house of God.
A terrific procedural drama that celebrates journalism.
Fucking mind boggling.  A very well made movie about something most of us pretend doesn't happen.
Hey, a movie for grownups! Smart and efficient storytelling, this is a captivating must-see expose and one of my favorite films of the year.
This film is phenomenal.  A must see and the best picture of the year so far.  Brilliant story and performances.
Intrigue fascinante et troublante. Prestations impeccables de tous les acteurs.
Excellent. Great acting. The story is so important.That it happened and continued in plain sight for so long,unabated is shameful.
Best Ensemble Cast! MUST see film of the year
Wow! This movie blew me away!  The acting was rich, every performance not only believable but passionate- involved- persuasive.  I was skeptical that this tragedy could be made into a high enough quality movie to do the people justice but it was flawless. This story was told showing acknowledgement, compassion, and justice with mercy for the victim and in the telling.
Child molesters are a fairly easy target and this film takes the safe road by targeting them without dimension or complexity, reducing them to 2-dimensional unseen villains victimizing 2-dimensional innocent victims. Reality contains a far deeper complexity that this film doesn't seem interested in exploring.
This is an excellent movie performed by an excellent cast. The story is far too real and needed to be told. It is in the form almost of a documentary... With the storyline of the newspapers and the stories as told by the victims. If you don't already know this is the story of the abuse by pedophile priests in Boston and then as disclosed by the newspaper around the world. I was touched more in my head that in my heart but one's heart can't help it break. It is not exactly a fun holiday movie nor is it a fun date movie but it is still a good movie if you are interested in this kind of current news.
Engrossing and infuriating. Great performances by the whole cast. Perfect movie.
You must run, not walk, to see Spotlight.. So well done. Such an important film. All the President's Men of our day. I hope all the media-bashing Republican candidates see it too and acknowledge the importance of investigative journalism at the so-called ``liberal mainstream media'' they keep attacking from their partisan silo. And that all journalists and media consumers see this and recognize how BS constant horse-race coverage is compared to true public affairs accountability reporting with impact. God do we really need anything else, I wonder? The Boston Globe reporters and editors are heroic. The acting is outstanding.
Spotlight is a riveting drama that perfectly captures the intense yet tedious job of being a journalist.  The film depicted the Boston Globe's exposé on the Catholic Church's decades of sexual abuse on the children of low-income families like it was a detective movie.  I loved it.   The cast is excels at playing the real-life players in this tale.  Best Picture indeed.
Oscar contender? Quite possible. Brilliant acting by the entire cast. All the pieces come together for this one. True story, relevant issues, it shows how pure journalism at its best is/was supposed to be done. The lost art of how to thoroughly cover a story and get it done right and it actually plays very well on the screen. Highly recommend this one. Don't let the subject matter scare you off.
Beautifully done, poignant film on this story. It should be required viewing for all. I was wonderfully impressed, and will be buying the DVD as soon as it comes out. The Globe deservers every public nod they get, and this is a nice credit to the team who did such spectacular work.
Amazing performances and a story we should never forget. Mark Ruffalo killed it.
Very tense and moving film. A must see for sure.
Wow. Easily best movie of the year. Emotionally gripping and thoughtful story telling of events that shook the nation.
Excellent - as a former catholic I appreciate the pressures the church and very Catholic city of Boston must have exerted to bury the truth.  Very well paced and fair accounting of everyone involved.  Highly recommended.
Mind boggling, sad, and disgusting cover up. As far as grading the movie, Keaton is on point.
This movie is not Only the best of the year, but quite possibly the best of the decade.
I'm not sure why this excellent film is only showing on two screens in the area but all the Old Geezers Who Go To The Matinee Alone seemed to have found it. That means lots of whispering and other noises; the nice old lady next to me hummed and actually sang along with a choir scene. Anyway none of that ruined the film for me. This is a terrific ensemble cast all going full blast; hardly a wrong note in the entire movie. No big action scenes at all and the suspense if subtle but you get the idea. The movie is about the Boston Globe's exposure of the Catholic Church coverup of child molestation. Not an easy film to watch, but still very important. Strongly recommended but don't go expecting light entertainment.
Spotlight is manages to put everything we need to know in it's well chosen 2h runtime. It handles the source material very well, is perfectly written, and has some of the best perfromances seen this year. The story outfolds just at the right speed, and the movie never get's boring. One very minor thing to nitpick: it doesn't get super-thrilling either; it's basically what you expect.
Excellent, a must watch.
The best episode of Law & Order you will ever witness!
98% A brutal and brilliant film. Justice goes first. Is one of those rare films that gives you goosebumps by only listening to the dialogues.
A nearly perfect film which perfectly captures the frustration and exhilaration of the reporting process, not to mention the complete absurdity of the Catholic Church.  Only negative would be that names are thrown around a lot and it can be easy to confuse or forget how one ties to another.
Great performances and good story telling but it didn't deserve the Oscar. Good movie but not the best of the year.
very good and interesting movie ....moves a little slow but overall a very powerful film
This movie was worth the hype and accolades during award season. I can't wait to watch it again on DVD.
Excellent procedural drama on this case in Boston
An excellent true-story that showcases the Boston Globe's Spotlight team who investigate the coverup of sexual abuse inside the Catholic Church. Of the main cast, Mark Ruffalo stands out as a reporter determined for justice. Academy recognition may be finally within his talented reach.

Laura's Grade: A
It's not just an Oscar grab movie. It's real! It horrors of reality. It's about exposing the truth. It's journalism at its BEST. It's just ...wow. 

The Revenant, you're up next!
An interesting and well acted movie but would I have gave it the Best Picture Oscar ? Probably not.
Excellent movie, inspirational, heroic, good guys winning one for a change.
An eye-opening film that, for lack of a better word, spotlights one of the most shameful and despicable moments in the history of religious institutionalization. Everyone should see this.
An expertly crafted thriller, Spotlight has managed to make the tedium of investigative journalism exciting and nail biting. It helps that their investigation into sexual abuse in the Catholic church is suitably horrifying material. Even knowing the story, the sheer numbers are staggering. All the investigators have some kind of stake in the church, which makes the story even more compelling. It wasn't a vendetta, but simply people who went where the evidence led them. The cast is uniformly excellent further adding to the draw of the film. Spotlight is well deserving of its best picture win at the Oscars.
What a powerful film. This cast is impressive, especially Keaton, and the script is incredible. The characters are written with such a realness to them, it's almost like you're not watching a movie most of the time. Spotlight is a movie that makes you realize just why you love movies.
A well-crafted, gripping film that serves to remind us of the true benefit of investigative journalism that seems to be lacking in today's 24-hour news cycle
Good script, good direction, good performances, but dense.
Spotlight is a powerful story that is handled with so much attention to detail and grace for its source material that is should be a must see for almost everybody.
Spotlight is a true tale that could have been mangled on the screen, but thankfully the filmmakers and excellent cast create something brisk, taut, and haunting.
people raved and raved about this.  felt like a really high quality movie of the week... Whatever
So sad the Catholic Church acted in this manner.
An excellent yarn in the same vein as All The President's Men: Journalists uncover some rotten shit and go about exposing it. 

The fact that it's a true story (and in our life time), and a sickening one at that makes the plot even thicker; even more juicy. 

The characters aren't played up; no one is glamorous and no one has an affair... I.e., it's not glitzed up for Hollywood. 

I saw it in France where some of the jokes about Jews in Boston were missed, but it is laugh out loud funny at times. 

Spare yourself seeing the shitty snow movie with DiCaprio doing his Oscar Fave and see this instead.
Spotlight is a gripping and at times perfect film. Despite it not being an action film, it still leaves you on the edge of your seat and longing for more. The characters feel real, and the drama organic. Spotlight is definitely one of the year's best and most important films.
One of the best movies of the year. Tells the story in a completely believable and realistic way. Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton have some of the best performances I've seen all year. I was thoroughly engrossed throughout the whole film, without too much Hollywood  
flare.
This isn't just one of the best films of the year, this is the best film about hard-hitting journalism since "All the President's Men".

With Tom McCarthy at the helm, a stellar cast (spearheaded by Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton, and Mark Ruffalo), and an airtight script, all the elements for a good movie are there. However, "Spotlight" won't settle for just good. This is a great story that deserves to be told greatly and so it is.

There are tricky themes and taboo subject matter at play that will no doubt rattle the overly-sensitive, but nevertheless this is a film that dives deep into the system and turns it inside out with razor sharp claws and a clear focus on exposing the truth. I may not agree with many journalistic practices, but this goes beyond simple journalism. It's about exposing false teachers and purging the church of God of a deep unrighteousness.

This is the kind of timely, acutely detail-oriented, and sharply directed work of art that a society attempting to divide itself from art that asks the hard questions needs. This is an important film.
Stunning movie. It was so real, the casting was superb
Sickened by collusion revealed in this film, Boston to this day steeped in the parochial past feigns attention to the issue.. As september fades and the emperor has new clothes tour becomes evident as unabashed visit to the vatican's ATM (USA) fallout from the era of Spotight remains squelched Boston will not go quietly into this century. The film as does hollywood with any history gets a bunch right takes licence with some. It is good and well cast, producer, film co et & all these actors l am told are well empathetic to the plight of victims. Sound was a bit weak of quality and early scenes not evidently nicely polished. It did finish well, Keaton, Ruffalo and Mcadams put the power to it. And although reality has facts damning the church even today on the the child endangerment score as l said Boston not screening this with adequate press promotion reveals it will continue it's ugly compliant parochial collusion. We shall see when it opens  if indeed it is muted, I am Sickened.
"Spotlight" is a "based on true events" film done right. McCarthy's slyly prosaic direction lets the factual events speak for themselves with little -if any- fluff injected. The cast is brilliant with particular nods to Keaton, Tucci, and Ruffalo; the latter of whom has had quite a year with this and "Infinitely Polar Bear". The brisk pacing combined with superbly executed disclosures made for a nail-biting rollercoaster. When the film ended I could hardly believe that 2 hours had just passed. "Spotlight" may have the flair of a made for TV movie, but it's ability to coerce emotional resonance out of it's viewers by simply telling the truth is highly commendable and can easily be regarded by this reviewer as one of the best films of the year. 4.5/5
Spotlight tells the story of an investigative reporting team named Spotlight, that is a branch of the Boston Globe. Under new direction from editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber), and superviser Ben Bradlee (John Slattery) the four members of Spotlight Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sasha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Matt Caroll (Brian d'Arcy James) take off investigating reports of Catholic Priests molesting young boys.

Things I Liked:

The Cast. This movie has a stellar cast and they all give brilliant performances. In addition to the people who work at the Boston Globe, there are fantastic supporting performances from a number of other cast member including Stanley Tucci and Billy Crudup as lawyers Mitch Garabedian and Eric MacLeish. And a number of great performances from people who even I don't recognize. If there hard to be a standout it's Mark Ruffalo but the entire cast in this movie really works.

The Poignancy. The longer the movie goes on and the more you learn about the conspiracy the more startling it is when you realize that this is a true story. The other part of that is before the credits roll they show what other cities have been affected by the corruption in the church and it's startling to see the city you are currently living in on the list. The movie really hits home in those final moments and the entire thing speaks out about how even the most sacred of institutions can be corrupted.

The Story. The investigation is impressive as the whole thing moves along. The movie has a tension and an excitement and you really find the entire thing interesting which is impressive for a movie that does nothing but show conversations between people. The movie is not one for people who need explosions, or stunts, but the movie has a phenomenal use of story to keep readers interested. It's a great thing to watch.

Things I Didn't Like:

No Comment. The movie is solid. I personally didn't have anything about it that really dragged it down. They say this is one of the heaviest hitters in the Oscar race and I can see why. It's a solid movie.

Overall:

Overall the movie is really well done. It tells an interesting story. The cast all deliver great performance. The movie really tells an important story that hits home even if you don't have any true personal connection to what has happened. It's a great movie that really works on every level and I am predicting this one is gonna be heavy contender come awards season. A fantastic piece of cinematic storytelling.
While the first act may stutter a few times and some aspects of the story involving witnesses and the psychological side never fully develop, Spotlight is an impeccable feat as both an intelligent reporter story and an incredible film.
One of the few movies I will watch again.  It was so well done.
Excellent. Difficult to watch though.
Performances were right on the money.
Amazing. Hopefully an Oscar winner for 4 leads and best picture. Must see for Catholics still naive to this awful truth, including myself.
I had the opportunity to catch a sneak screening of this film a week prior to its release and want to draw some attention to it and its undeniable quality as it will likely, ironically enough, fail to ever find the spotlight butting head-to-head with Spectre being released the same weekend.  There will always (arguably) be another James Bond movie or over-the-top action film similar to it, but Spotlight is a rare film this year that would be a shame to miss and deserves every bit of attention it will likely receive come award season.

Spotlight is a film imbued with an intrinsic sense of subtlety and deference.  It doesn't dwell on Hollywood-isms or trick the audience with convenient plot twists and escapist subplots and drama.  Spotlight is, at its core, bare-knuckled, by-the-books, calculated, and precisely executed.  It only reaches as far as the scope of the story that inspired the film demands.  As a minor consequence, it can come off as dry and somber at times, but this film has so many other things going for it that it never really seems to drag.

If Spotlight had been told in any other way with any other cast, it likely would have either parted from a truthful, realistic depiction of the actual events or came across as the largest bore of 2015.  To be fair, however, the story itself is compelling in its own right and is likely to relate to any audience member bold enough to sit through a film of this type.  It was actually a very dense film with little intrigue beyond the cast and premise, but it was told in such a convincing way that to give it anything other than my full attention would have felt disrespectful.  It really felt like it was just a few great acting performances away from actually turning into a documentary, and likely would have been just as effective as such.

So let's get into what really matters in a film of this style and caliber:  the performances.  As one would expect given the rave reviews of the film already and the names attached to this title, the performances are spectacular all around.  Michael Keaton has toned down from his over-dramatic, schizophrenic Birdman role to a far more calm, self-serious, motivated character in Spotlight.  Keaton's character, however, is never really given a chance to shine and pales in comparison to the character played by Mark Ruffalo who, in my opinion, stole the show.  He plays his typical investigation-related role that he's played at least ten times now, although his performance reminded me most clearly of not his, but Jake Gyllenhaal's character in Zodiac.  Instead of calm and suave as per usual, he now plays the overly passionate, sociopathic type that doesn't seem to get a wink of rest from the start to the end of the film in so desperately trying to uncover the mystery beneath it all.  Rachel McAdams is great, too.  And it only feels right for her to be in this, immediately following her role in the second season of True Detective which was likewise plagued by the complication of dealing with too many indistinguishable names and characters.

I should sidetrack briefly and admit to one flaw I felt fell upon the movie a bit for me and that was the complication of dealing with so many different leads, victims, alleged criminals and so on and so forth.  It would be criminal not to include all of these names as they all served as individual cogs used to propel the narrative along.  I just almost wish they weren't introduced at such a rapid pace, or at least that each name was given equal weight.  I nodded my head at the times where characters would recall details of the person being described to help me remember him or her, but other times so many names of people never physically shown on camera would be thrown in the mix simply for the purpose of reference that I began to find myself a little lost.  Perhaps that's just me.  I just felt at times characters didn't elaborate upon perceptibly crucial details as well as some procedural films similar to it.

Nevertheless, each character portrayed felt human, emotionally charged and vibrant, relatable, and important.  Spotlight did such a good job portraying each character and just enough detail of their back stories evenly that it's almost hard to say who the main character of the film really even was.  An argument could be made somewhere between Ruffalo, Keaton, and McAdams, but even between the three of them each character is covered to a pretty even degree.  I loved that about this movie because it helped everything seem level.  No one character was heralded or glamorized above another and each member of the Boston Globe editorial team portrayed contributed to the development of the narrative in their own unique ways, as it would have been in reality.

This film is tonally consistent, fair and respectful of its subject matter, emotionally driven, well-acted, thought-provoking, deftly-paced, and even appears to have an exceptional sense of direction both in terms of narrative and style.  Director Tom McCarthy handled the true story perfectly in a way that never came off as expository or shameful, but rather enlightening and powerful.  All around Spotlight is a well-made, tightly-crafted, and tense drama revolving around a topic that threatens to shake society's faith of the religious institution, as it did for me.  They don't make many movies quite like this anymore.  With the attention span of much of the modern audience there isn't much room for attention to be drawn to this type of film anymore outside of Oscar buzz, and the box office numbers prove it time and again.  So do Hollywood some justice and see BOTH Spectre AND Spotlight on November 6th when they're released in the US.
Really Powerful and Compelling. A cast at the top of their game and a director/screenwriter making sure you are evoked and as the cast is uncovering truths and lies, your just as perplexed as to what they should do as reporters. One of the years best.
Intelligent suspenseful drama covers the incredibly complex project taken on by the Boston Globes Spotlight investigative reporters, to uncover a child sexual abuse scandal by the Catholic Church so enormous in scope, there is a continuous string of pauses throughout just to allow us to grasp the idea, along with the characters.  It is fast paced, brilliantly cast, sharply written, nail bitingly suspenseful, gripping, and smart.  Best movie so far this year.
I'd be quite happy for this to win the Oscar. Excellent.
SPOTLIGHT is that rare film that takes a true event and delves into it with razor-sharp focus while employing a straightforward no-nonsense approach; it refuses to resort to ubiquitous movie-like scenarios - there is no fluff, no dazzle, no unnecessary drama, no corny subplots, and none of those moments we have come to associate with "cheesy" and "Hollywood." Instead, what Tom McCarthy has brought to the table is a tightly written script about work and process - the ensemble is excellent as they merge into their real-life counterparts and bring to life the strategies and dedication and sacrifice their characters must go through in order to reach their desired outcome (while fighting against the Catholic Church, no less). This is easily one of the least flashy but most thrilling and rejuvenating films of the year.
Well done, good performances and an original approach at the beginning of 2000. Spotlight proves to be a well-made film with a complex argument about pederasty and a controversial message for the Catholic society, the truth will not hide for long.
Exemplifying the pillars of journalistic integrity, Spotlight provides one of the most intense situations in recent domestic American history, the Catholic church, and multiple lawyers, being questioned in their defense of sanctioned pedophilia and its victims. From the opening shot, the fluidity between actors is well displayed, the spotlight team (comprised of Keaton, Ruffalo, McAdams, and James), working in tandem with one another, the script and performance of each actor giving an eerily natural flow from one scene to the next. Schreiber and Slattery don't have as much screen time as the aforementioned, but their unique characters give enough oomph to the plot line. With a muted piano & bass-heavy score, only the sounds of the streets of Boston as well as the office of The Boston Globe to accompany the sound profile, the film in itself is an edge-of-the-seat dramatic piece. The reason I believe it's one of the best films I've seen in a very long time is resonant in the fact that it characterizes the sheer tenacity of integrous/virtuous journalists, rooting through the murky legislation and human will that surrounds this scandal. A must watch.
Very good movie a little slow in beginning but hit it's stride and kept interest rest of way out.   Excellent acting.
A profound film both in vision and storytelling that includes one of the best ensembles of the year, Spotlight avoids the cliches and over-the-top antics to provide true and informative journalism. The end result is both real and gripping, making Spotlight one of the best films of the year. 9.5/10
Great film! Loved it!
I really enjoyed Spotlight and can see why it received the various nominations.
It is a great cast and the story (which is shocking) is well told and moves along at a good pace. 
It is well worth a watch.
I'm sure there are people  who will resist Knowing what this movie discloses. Unfortunately, unless these people who want to stick their head in the sand see this by accident, it's preaching mostly to the choir. But everyone should see this. Back in 2002, when this story broke, it led to a flood of thousands of people all over the world coming forward with their stories. SEVEN sons in just ONE family were affected, and still the family kept the secret. This is not just a story of exposing corruption, it is about exposing the most heinous of Crimes, with an entire Institution, everyday families, politicians, police, lawyers, etc. involved in the cover up.
Easily the best film I've watched this year. in an age where true journalism is too often crowded out by attention grabbing headline soundbites, this movie reminds readers of the purpose of journalism: to seek, understand, and declare the Truth by breaking down the institutions that profit by hiding it.
Being Michael Keaton's first film since the Best Picture winning Birdman or (The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance), Spotlight had promises of strong acting.

Though my original intentions for watching Spotlight came from the presence of Michael Keaton, I discovered something far more impressive lying in the roots of the film. Directed and written by Thomas McCarthy, Spotlight is a promising return to form after his abysmal effort on the Golden Raspberry Award nominated The Cobbler (2014). In one of, if not his greatest film to date, Spotlight presents the man an opportunity to transcend a new level of brilliance without betraying his true nature as an independent filmmaker. He exceeds these standards with a tenacious grip over truthful storytelling and genuine entertainment.
Though The Cobbler had a low budget, it still presents a time when Tom McCarthy sold out. In Spotlight, the man returns to what he is good at and manages to divert a collection of accomplished Hollywood actors in a film far from the narrative dramatization and studio interference of the Hollywood system. He makes a film which is very clear in its goal and simple in its path. Spotlight is a feature so focused on narrative that it neglects the need to highlight the appearances of its stars or even create much imagery. The actors are predominantly toned down to maintain a more everyman appearance, which can vary from the natural appearances of Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo to the less glamourized appearance of natural beauty Rachel McAdams and beyond to a nearly unrecognizable Liev Schreiber. The only real moments of imagery come from the few shots which capture the images of churches in a fashion which subtly depicts the size of them and symbolizes the scope of their strength in the process. The visual style of the film is simple, giving a more realistic edge to it and challenging the actors to perform with minimal editing and more prolonged shots. The technical aspects of Spotlight do not dominate but are fairly solid with the use of a subtle musical score being gently atmospheric, and though the audio feed has some occasional moments of being a little rough, it is hardly enough to damage the experience.
Spotlight is a film which is so rich in narrative that it relies solely on actual storytelling to keep the viewer engaged.  To support this, the screenplay is full of tenacious dialogue and many themes to cover. There is a lot to keep up with which can overload viewers while the slow pace put in to give them time to comprehend everything can also make it drag on a bit, but ultimately it is difficult not to get caught up in the narrative because the dialogue is so rich that it gives the film characters, concepts and themes which just keep coming. There is rarely a dull moment in the film, and though it is very talkative there are always interesting topics of discussion. Spotlight chronicles serious subject matter: the story of The Boston Globe's investigation into systemic child sex abuse in the Boston area at the hands of the Catholic Church. Though it does not get too deeply into the material to rely on psychological melodrama to drive its narrative, it doesn't play it safe either. The film finds an effective balance in the multiple perspectives taken on the events. Audiences are given a chance to hear the experiences of victims discussing what they experienced, how it affected them or why it allowed them to happen as well as the investigators searching them for answers. There is also the perspective of members of the church and those within the legal system who contributed to hiding things or attempted to take a stand. There is a broad scope of material in Spotlight and strong characters to sustain it rather than a reliance on style. The slow pace of the story is not a major problem because things keep moving along between the main story and the multiple characters, with the main figures being essentially equal in relevance at all times. As a result, the actors are given plenty of room to breathe and flex their dramatic muscles which leaves the determination of the best characters to rely almost solely on the performances of the actors.
Mark Ruffalo is surely the screen stealer. In an Academy Award nominated performance, Mark Ruffalo consistently conveys a level of sophisticated intelligent and professionalism in his part where he engages with the fellow characters as both associates and friends. He therefore captures a realistic sense of humanity and friendliness in the part, but that is only a subcategory of his extensive talent. Mark Ruffalo is constantly on an ambitious quest for truth in Spotlight with more intense determination than any of the actors around him. He highlights the tense nature of the atmosphere through the ability to speak very fast but also clearly. He manages to put many extents of emotion into all this, ranging from internal to physical. His engagement in the role is very rich, and it hits its endeavour at the most dramatic moment in the film. The deeper his character Michael Rezendes gets into the investigation, the more it becomes personal and Mark Ruffalo capitalizes on that in one scene where he confronts Walter "Robby" Robinson with a desire to pursue an immediate story and becomes aggressive by the lack of support. He shouts his way into immediately capturing the full attention of audiences and catapults himself into being the most interesting character of the story for the remainder of the film if he had not already established that for viewers, and it is another boost to the credibility of the actors' already many achievements. Mark Ruffalo delivers one of his career's finest performances in Spotlight, and his Academy Award nomination is well-deserved.
Michael Keaton is also brilliant. Though he is not given nearly as much personal insight, Michael Keaton commands the Spotlight team with a natural sense of leadership about him. He maintains a great understanding of all the legal concepts and ethical dilemmas of his situation and conveys it with sophistication and charm, confidently speaking every word without a second thought. He stands strong in the role and creates strong interactions with the surrounding cast, particularly the aforementioned climax with Mark Ruffalo. Michael Keaton's performance in Spotlight is yet another reminder of just what great talent has resurged with his career comeback.
Rachel McAdams is also brilliant. Capturing the same rich sense of determination maintained by her fellow Spotlight team members, Rachel McAdams' speciality lies in the ability to convey that strength while also having a gentle side. Her interactions with certain characters prove to be very subtle in drama, yet she highlights a rich emotional state for the duration of them without pushing into melodrama or tedious sentimentality. In one of her greatest performances to date, Rachel McAdams is powerfully intelligent and ambitious yet one of the most human characters of the story and distinctive as a result. She adds her own style of drama to the film which is an essential element of the entertainment and humanity of the story, resulting in one of the finest performances of her career.
John Slattery is also a dedicated member of the cast, and Liev Schreiber's restraint and sophistication in an almost-unrecognizable getup is most admirable. 

So Spotlight is a talkative and gently paced film, rich with Tom McCarthy's tenacious direction over an intelligent screenplay that covers essential subject matter, all while remaining bolstered by a brilliant cast led by Mark Ruffalo's incredible talents.
Substitutes movie glam for hard hitting facts. So wonderfully acted by all. Ruffalo especially shines. Keaton on point as usual. Skip the "Hungry Games" this weekend for Spotlight if you want a real David and Goliath story.
Awesome movie, really interesting. A chilling look into the priest abuse scandals of the 2000s.
Good look in to what journalism should be and why it might not be good business.
It was like a very good special episode of the 5th season of The Wire, and I love that show to death.
great telling of this horrific, despicable act. I was also pleased the acting played second fiddle to the story of the movie. the acting wasn't bad, but not award worthy. I could easily see this movie winning Best Picture.
Exceptional. Well-acted by entire cast-especially Schrieber, Keaton and Ruffalo.A true story well told. Saw it twice. Got such a greater appreciation for the cinematic brilliance of it the second time.
Easy the best film of the year, Not my favorite movie but the pst overall film.  Hard to see any movie beat Spotlight for Best Picture at the Academy Awards.  Although known for over a decade now, this movie does an amazing job at telling this horribly sad story.  What's most powerful is the final credit scene when you see just how badly the abuse from these priests and bishops effected not just US catholics but catholics around the world.  Catholicism bring hope and answer to Billions of people around the world and I praise them for doing that, but nothing will take away from the tragedy and stain that a few priests had on the entire religion.

P.s. Watch the movie
Loved it! Outstanding
well done.  excellent cast.  priests = dirty.
Superbly written and brilliantly acted.  Two thumbs way up.
Definitely to be mentioned in Oscar conversations, "Spotlight" is movie making at its finest.  The movie is well scripted, well acted and tells the remarkable true story of a team of Boston Globe reporters that were not afraid of the system.
I thought it was great. I loved the acting. Everyone was perfect! The writing was my favorite part. So well done. There were lines in the movie that really hit me hard. I cried. Yes it's a little upsetting to watch but it was a great eye opener & inspirational in a way. It's crazy that this is a true story. Yeah there is a little slow parts but hardly noticeable. Howard Shore also did a good job with the score. Loved it. Thought the cast was all amazing. Really loved Mark Ruffalo in this. It has been a movie that I have watched over and over. Must see! Must own for me :)
Featuring a number of great performances by well-known actors, Spotlight thoroughly covers the breaking of the Boston Catholic priest sexual assault scandal in 2001-2002, leaving you stunned by the scope of the horrific misconduct, but at the same time entertained by the well-placed humorous bits and the overall compelling depiction of one of the biggest stories of the 21st Century so far.
Very good. all star cast pulls it off.
What an amazing story the church should be ashamed for coving up such a disgusting act. 
Film was great well acted and at a very good pace.
Definitely among the top three I've watched this year, till now. Only negative was a certain lack of conviction in its portrayal of the doings of the church but then again, I guess this wasn't about it, it was more about the investigation.
Insanely good! The cast was incredible, the script super solid and just amazing. Really glad I was able to watch the movie. Definitely needs to be added to the collection
Better than All The President's Men.
Not since All The Presidents Men has journalism had such a fine filmic moment- the ghastly tale of years and years of molestation, abuse and coverup by the Catholic Church rivals Watergate in sheer scope and undermining of public trust. A flawless cast - the true meaning of ensemble - unfolds the mystery and gathering of facts, tracing a sad tapestry until the overall impact is overwhelming. This is a film that, even now, can prove how film, well made, changes everything.
Exceptional ensemble film.  Oscar bait all the way around.
This movie was so depressing and scary, but soooooo good! It's sickening how the church got away with something for so long, not just because the church protected the priests, but because the community did also. Definitely recommend.
A triumphant piece of work that speaks to the importance of the American Press.
An unflinching portrayal of journalism. Ruffalo absolutely disappears. Keaton has reached "Alan Arkin level," a Best Supporting Nom is in order. And unless Stallone nabs it out from under him, I predict a Keaton win.
Excellent. A must see.
extremely powerful, moving towards people who abuses their power.
Delivers a disturbingly great plot with amazing performances
With a top-notch cast and a gripping true story, Spotlight succeeds on many levels from its informational narrative.
Best Movie of the Year. Handles a shameful story expertly. Well done across the board.
Best picture of the year. By far.
Spotlight has the makings of a great film: terrific actors that sell every moment on screen and add a real layer of depth to their characters, an incredibly competent director that guides through a marvelous screenplay with ease, and a real life story that's equally as fascinating as the film that resulted from it. Aside from all of this, both the creative force and the true facts behind it, Spotlight is simply a terrific cinematic story about the truth, getting closer to the truth, and the collective efforts that it takes to get to the truth... or not. Regardless of background, regardless of beliefs, and regardless of how much you do or don't care about this story... this is a film that is absolutely worth seeing. It's by far one of the best of 2015.
Spotlight is a movie that unfortunately doesn't look exceptionally interesting on the surface, but trust me when I say that the story that unravels while watching this film is gut-wrenching and exceptionally done. There were several instances that I found myself on the verge of tears just because of how angry I was at the fact that these events actually occurred. Not to mention Ruffalo's outstanding and passionate performance as Rezendes. You can tell that this film wasn't made to make money at the box office, it was made to make sure its story was known.
Great movie.  Fuck you catholicism you rapist pieces of shit.
"Spotlight" does a good job at putting a scandal under an in-depth evaluation while also being respectful to the religious institution at its center.
Awesome movie with great acting and a winding plot that keeps you on the edge of your seat
not surprised this controversial film wasn't a blockbuster, but holy shit is it good!!!
Fantastic direction, flawless acting, impeccable script, chilling soundtrack. This is not only the best journalism film ever made, but the best film of the year thus far.
Raw and jaw dropping story that needed to be told just as much as they say themselves in the film. The ensemble cast is what is most spot on here. Impeccable acting. The soundtrack as simple as it was, made it the more intriguing. #OscarRaceIsOn

Next up: "Brooklyn".
Great acting. Horrific subject. Not the feel good movie of the year
"A very important fact-based true story about the early 2000s catholic church scandal, Spotlight is filled with amazing performances from its stellar cast and succeeds in making your jaw drop at moments. - 9/10" (full review soon)
As a moviegoer I found this to be an excellent film. Perhaps just a bit too mechanical, with everything in order and the resolution coming just when you would expect, but otherwise fascinating to watch. As a lapsed Catholic it will make you wonder how much money you put in those envelopes over the years, and cringe at the thought that some of that cash went to support an institution that could harm children in this way.
Amazing film! Highly recommended.
Outstanding. Powerful. Chilling.
Old-school, straightforward, engaging and fantastic filmmaking from Director Tom McCarthy. This is probably his best film to date. Although I love The Visitor so much. The writing in this feature is so good. The character development, dialog and plot just keep building and building. I was continually engaged in this investigative puzzle piece. I was continually thinking while watching Spotlight that we need more movies like this. I know this feature will be in my Top 10 movies at the end of the year.and I definitely want to watch it again and see if my love for it deepens.
Excellent.  Heartwrenching. Brilliant. The whole cast was stellar.
The hallmark of Spotlight is its execution. While it subject matter, background and plot structure are not new, McCarthy hones them to a fine edge, pushing his cast to mold to their roles and creating a film that is moving, insightful, accurate and respectful.
Excellent story, cast, and information. A
It probably comes as no surprise that a movie about investigative journalists and media lawyers was riveting to me, but I thought this was fantastic.  Best movie to inspire new journalists since "All the King's Men."

Grade: A+
Despite the rather slow start, Spotlight is a must-see and will make your jaw drop when you discover the devastating actions of some priests. Powered by an all-star cast, there is little to fault with Spotlight. I even learned to respect Rachel McAdams as a serious actress and can see that her Oscar nomination is well deserved. Spotlight will break your heart and then mend it.
Does the subject matter outweigh or elevate beyond the film itself? I'm not sure this was best picture worthy but it is certainly an interesting story.
This movie is nearly perfection! Spotlight is made for the journalism junkies out there, the type of people who adore All the President's Men. Watching the Boston Globe's Spotlight team dig into the corruption in the Catholic Church is riveting from start to finish. This film makes watching people do in depth research in a library engaging. Spotlight is easily a strong contender for this year's best picture at the Academy Awards.
A pretty decent episode of Law & Order
Great movie.  Good balance of story telling and drama.  The actors were great.  A tough subject matter dealt with in a respectful manner and kept it classy.  Now I need to research the actual stats.
'Spotlight' is a gritty realistic take on a very sensitive controversy that rooted as early as the 80s. The story takes a small group of journalists, specialized in uncovering issues and situations with great depths, who tries to confront the ugliest flaw happening inside the catholic church regarding the abuse and molestation of kids that occurred decades ago and are still happening in churches and religious establishments. The interesting factor about 'Spotlight' is that it feels like an actual representation of entirety of the controversy. It excelled in creating a setting that allows the audience to experience the gritty and at the same time, disturbing story, aided by strong performances from a cast who keenly embraced the persona of their characters.
Spotlight is a haunting and disturbing tale lead by an outstanding cast.
Spotlight is a fine example of what perfect execution looks like. From the outset we are given the broad scope of the issue the film looks to tackle and from there we dive right into Boston, 2001 to meet the key players in the game the film will be playing. There are no hiccups, no time for second guesses and nothing narratively to take away from the main objective. Spotlight is a prime piece of meat with all of the fat trimmed and only the juiciest parts left so as to make the whole experience one of pure, concentrated excellence. That said, it is certainly an interesting case in a couple of areas. The first being that director Thomas McCarthy (The Visitor, Win Win), who is generally regarded as both a solid writer and filmmaker, was coming off the worst reviewed film of his career a year ago with The Cobbler and so to bounce back so ferociously with this effortlessly intelligent thriller makes it clear there is something more to be said for the process of filmmaking. The other, is that this reviewer in particular is a Catholic. This is an influential piece of information considering Spotlight is about the Boston Globe's investigation into the Church's sexual abuse scandal that gave cause for people everywhere (Catholic or not) to take a second look at one of our most respected and trusted institutions. Because the film plays it straight down the middle, with no time for subplots or unnecessary qualms no one party is ever viewed unfairly, but rather the irrefutable facts presented allow the audience to make up their own minds.

read the whole review at www.reviewsfromabed.com
Intriguing, beautifully scripted and gripping newspaper investigation. Spotlight takes audiences into a moment that everyone can relate to: a time in which telling the truth about a matter is both necessary and perilous.
This movie/story is one that definitely needs to be told, and the acting is great, particularly by Ruffalo, but I would be lying if I said I didn't get really bored at times during this film. It just comes off as a bone dry film for the critics to drool over. The film develops well and is interesting in spurts, but I wouldn't recommend this one for entertainment. Perhaps if you have a particular interest in the subject matter you will enjoy it more than I did.
Hands-down, the best film I saw this past year... by far. If you're looking for a film the leaves you with a hopeful feeling by the closing credits, this definitely is not it. But for what it lacks in "happy feelies" it makes up for in the cold-hard truth of the hardships endured by victims of sexual abuse, as well as the incredulity of how long such incidents were swept under the rug for decades. The cast portraying the dedicated "Spotlight" team is the best I've seen since films like "Argo," "The King's Speech," and "The Social Network." Each person feeds off of the next with seamless fluidity. It's surprising that the cast standout, Michael Keaton, hasn't gotten more recognition compared to his puzzling role in "Birdman" - though Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams did a very commendable job to earn supporting nominations. As a Christian, seeing stories of widespread exploitation condoned by a church institution leaves me nothing short of frustrated, disgusted, and disappointed. Nonetheless, I highly recommend more people of faith to see this film... for the sole reason that we need to understand and take ownership of such injustices if we're ever to be effective witnesses for His Kingdom.
It occasionally has the feel of a TV movie that was released in theaters, but I get that the straightforward direction is really about trying to avoid sensationalizing the story than any laziness on the part of the filmmakers. As a testament to the laborious and important process of serious investigative journalism, the movie works quite well.
Masterful storytelling, brilliant direction, top notch performances, probably going to be the best of 2015. Incredible film all around, top to bottom
Slow, but strong, Spotlight has constant rise of emotional engagement, going from mundane to intrigue, to eventually full investment in what the characters are trying to accomplish, which the characters themselves are still discovering. Excellent writing and performances, a solid and real film.
One of the best investigative movies of all time. Loved it from start to finish.
Such a heroic group of journalist whom took on Golieth and won exposing a shameful chapter and cover up in a crippled institution.
Instead of taking the muck-raking route, Spotlight is a reporter's procedural - showing how to craft the right story, and focus it on the true problem, and not all the pathetic victims - which could have been the easy way out. Humanity shines through all the major characters - well acted. Just a mite overlong.
A powerful true telling of brave journalism. The cast here is outstanding and the direction is immaculate. At just over two hours, I actually wished it were a little longer.
Forensic, dialogue-heavy and well-acted newspaper drama about the Catholic Church's ruthless cover-up of child abuse and paedophilia. What stops it being great is a certain airlessness and self-satisfaction: think what it might have been if the Church had been allowed more screen time. You'll need to engage your brain too, because the mumbled dialogue is often delivered at Howard Hawks speed.
Outstanding. I was not looking forward to this viewing but was taken back by the conviction and diligence of this true recounting of the Boston's Globe coverage of one of the biggest scandals of all time: Michael Keaton was riveting. Mark Ruffalo  brought what may be the best performance of his already stunning career. The rest of the cast also brought memorable performances: Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, Jaime Sheridan and Stanley Tucci. Tucci's every twitch, ascant gaze and nod of his head felt genuine. I believed his character and this movie had the same genuineness. Spotlight is what journalism should strive to be and what many hope it will return to.
Refreshing to watch actors play intelligent people. It's smart, taut, slow-burning goodness. One of the year's best and a surefire Oscar contender. The whole ensemble is terrific, but I'm putting a little star next to Liev Schreiber's name. His understated performance as the new Boston Globe editor commanded the screen and anchors the film.
Spotlight is the greatest movie about investigative journalism since All The Presidents Men. It tells its story without any typical Hollywood cues or annoying subplots. It's the kind of film that will be shown in journalism classes as the perfect example of how to find and evaluate information to build a story. It's subject matter can get touchy for some, but it's hard to argue with hard facts. I didn't expect to see a film reach this level of excellence this year but Spotlight has managed to surpass it. It's already my pick for best picture and there are still many movies to watch this Oscar bait season.
99%
http://thewriterboy.weebly.com/movie-reviews.html
A movie without heroes. Just journalist doing their job ... and doing it well. A story about getting the story that gains momentum as more sad and frustrating details are revealed to the journalists AND the viewers. Possibly the best movie of 2015.
By far my favorite movie of the year. It deserved best picture by a mile. The acting was great and it had a good storyline. If there was one thing that I would've liked is of Michael Keaton was a stronger leading role. I thought that Mark Ruffalo was going to win best supporting acting (but he didn't). Loved this film.

Overall: A

Just another short review. Hopefully it was enjoyable.
Other nominees are better, but this one is pretty damn good. Fascinating story.
Although taking place in the early 90s, there is a call back to All the President's Men and an interesting 70s feel to this investigative drama. Ultimately it is a good choice as best picture with a tension that is palpable despite the conclusion that many going to see the picture would already know.
Though starting on a sluggish note, Spotlight picks up and becomes an engrossing and disturbing film detailing the boogeyman under the bed in reality and brings such dark material to light thanks to its precise and sharp directing, superb acting particularly by the likes of Keaton and Ruffalo, and the quick, realistic dialogue that makes one feel that they're watching a documentary over a standard film. Spotlight certainly shines.
"Sometimes it's easy to forget that we spend most of our time stumbling around the dark. Suddenly, a light gets turned on and there's a fair share of blame to go around. I can't speak to what happened before I arrived, but all of you have done some very good reporting here. Reporting that I believe is going to have an immediate and considerable impact on our readers. For me, this kind of story is why we do this."
Great performances and filmmaking on its serious subject making this film a good viewing experience.    A-
Deserves all the acclaim it has received
Journalism nowadays is so sycophantic and whorish that when journalists do their jobs, they deserve a major Hollywood movie. 

If this story doesn't make your blood boil, you're already dead.
Spotlight flows a team of journalists at The Boston Globe who uncover the Catholic Church molestation scandal in 2001. Spotlight is a masterpiece of film making. It has a fantastic cast of Michael Keaton, Mark  Ruffalo, Rachael Mckadams, and Leiv Schreiber. Spotlight is a movie that everyone should see, and is one of the best films of 2015.
A film of this style is easily classified as generic, many films intend to be a denounce and finally say nothing. Spotlight goes further, providing a clever script that knows exactly the keys to understand the problem, with conviction and delicacy.
Fantastic docu-film centered around the massive news expose (and some 600 stories posted thereafter) published by the Boston Globe in the early 2000s surrounding the Catholic Church child molestation cases and subsequent cover-up dating back nearly 30 years... Being a part of the news industry I remember this story all too well and Spotlight did a fantastic job of bringing something new to the table as well as providing a 2+ hour entertaining movie along the way. Acting, writing, directing, and even the editing were all well done; if you care about journalism even just a little bit, or are intrigued by these types of slow-burn thriller films, you owe it to yourself to see Spotlight (in limited theater release now) as its up there in my favorites of 2016 and I see a bright future for this film come award season...
A superb film with a fantastic ensemble cast!
"We all stumble around in the dark and cover up something."

I tried to find a fault in this true story of the Boston Globe uncovering the scandal within the Boston church, but I just couldn't.

It's like a snowflake that falls and starts rolling into a snowball then into a boulder. Layer upon layer builds until it all comes together and everybody has some guilt on the matter.
An effective true story, Spotlight spotlights (pun intended) on how the press can sometimes make a difference
MUST SEE!!! Best Picture nomination for sure. The story is beyond compelling and each and every performance is incredible!
super depressing but really well done
incroyable, performances magistrales ... en route vers les Oscars
A riveting and eye opening look at a really amazing investigation into the Catholic Church's cover up of the abuses for years. Focuses mainly on Boston but really turns the camera around and pins it on us being as guilty as anyone else for the abuse cover up. Hits hard at the media for negligence and swings hard at those who did any sort of cover up work. A sad and sick story told in an incredible way so as not to make heroes of the reporters but to shed light on a really sordid piece of religious history.
after hearing all the good reception for this film, I was very excited to see it and when my theater got it finally, I rushed to see it. and wow it's absolutely fantastic. Spotlight is a very important film. it takes a very mature and sensitive subject and brings it to the light with grace, politeness, and respect and it never seems to glorify or lionize these reporters. and the acting is absolutely phenomenal and the ensemble as a whole is brilliant. everyone here gives outstanding performances, and I mean everybody. Spotlight is a wholly engrossing, thrilling look into investigative journalism and a rewarding cinematic treat. one of the greatest films I have seen all year.
I cannot praise this movie enough. The delicate subject matter is handled perfectly by a cast that each give an Oscar-worthy performance. Everything from cinematography to the score was just right. As of right now, this deserves to be the Best Picture front runner.
Grade - B
'Spotlight' is one of those films where you can hardly believe that the events unfolding in front of you actually happened. The scale of this cover-up is unbelievable, and the film does an excellent job of telling the story right, and isn't some pretentious oscar-bait movie like it could have been. Despite some pacing issues throughout; and the fact that there's a lot of information (mainly names) to process and remember in a short space of time, with the help of some excellent performances and a fantastic script, the movie is a dark yet deserving watch.
Great movie. cast was amazing, ruffalo will win an award for this, keaton was great, tucci was amaze balls, and liev s. is really coming into his own and SO grounded. WE LOVED IT
Spotlight is a tremendous piece of film making that will make you go completely speechless with some of the scenes in this movie. Michael Keaton, Brian d'Arcy James and Rachel McAdams all gave superb performances, as it was both convincing and realistic with their reactions. But Mark Ruffalo was absolutely phenomenal in this movie and he stole the show.

The director of this movie (Tom McCarthy) did the Adam Sandler film "The Cobbler". Now, let that sink in for a minute.
emotional, powerful, truthful
So engrossing and such an important story, this film is very focused and well made but just not my type of film.
Excellent script and excellent ensemble cast. Mark Ruffalo shines. Mournful score by Howard Shore.
No gimmicks. Just incredible filmmaking.
Like a modern day All the President's Men, Spotlight is a superb look into the importance of investigative journalism, told gracefully by wonderful performances, sharp editing, and an incredible script. This true story about one investigative team at The Boston Globe and how they uncovered a decades long cover up of sexual assault in the Catholic Church is one of the best films of the year. It showcases how great journalism is important, hard work, and above all: necessary.
Right away, Spotlight is poised to be totally attracting to the Oscars. Its ripped-from-the-headlines story, its impressive cast, and serious subject matter make it a prime contender for several Academy Award categories. Making a movie about the journalistic investigation of the Catholic Church's sex scandals needs to result in a strong movie to avoid being annoying or exploitative. Although not as impressive as one would be led to believe, Spotlight is a strongly acted and well written movie, its subtlety building to a climax just like its real-life subject matter. Being a movie that's mostly based in stagnate locations--offices, apartments, etc.--Spotlight greatly benefits from its core talent. Its cast does a very good job as a whole, and although I wasn't blown away by anyone in particular, each person in front of the camera avoids overacting, save for one scene involving Mark Ruffalo (and his fake accent with a lisp). Rachel McAdams might be the most enjoyable to watch. She always has a great presence, but she's both strong and sympathetic. She kind of has a Dana Scully thing going on. The screenplay is interesting constructed in how it allows each sex abuse survivor to recount their stories, as well as how the movie's understated approach to the material mirrors how it was deflected by officials and publications in real life until it couldn't be ignored anymore. Thomas McCarthy's direction compliments the script well, but it isn't really anything to write home about. Despite its positives, Spotlight isn't a movie that works wonders, but simply because it doesn't noticeable surpass other movies as of late. There's nothing in particular that fails, but I won't probably won't find myself looking back at 2015 come last week of December saying, "Yeah, Spotlight was amazing. Top ten material there," or anything. It's not amazing, but it's still strong thanks to its performances and screenplay. I don't think that Spotlight will stick with me for a while, but it's still nothing short of solid. It's engaging and interesting, but not a ton past that. 7.9/10, solid, one thumb up, above average, etc.
Here's a movie I wouldn't necessarily watch because of the subject matter and the fact that it comes across quite dry. What drove me to see this was the actors in this. A stellar ensemble of talent without a doubt. The movie is based on a true story about the scandals involving the Catholic Church. 

Not exactly a popcorn escapism movie material. But watching it wasn't too bad. Quite a slow, very talky, film saved by great acting by everyone on screen and a strong story.
how DO they decide which amazing acting job to nominate in a movie with so many? fantastic story, bravely told.
When you have a topic like the Catholic Church covering up priests who have molested children, you don't need any over dramatisation of events. The facts are what make Spotlight so great.
Amazing!  Absolutely loved it.
This is the movies event of the year to me, best of 2015! Tells the story of systematic cover up of child abuse in Boston catholic  church and societies' pressure to neglect the reality. spotlight makes you appreciate and admire true journalism and its vital role in keeping a society honest. Hats off  to the (unfortunately disappearing) breed of journalists who sacrifice their lives and everything they have to shed light on reality and bring the unjust to trial!
No doubt that Spotlight will be strong contender at the Academy awards this year for best picture, script, original score and more
Definitely the best film I've seen this year.  My main thoughts...1(a) Mark Ruffalo has really turned into a fantastic actor and shows huge range and believable emotion throughout the movie; 1(b) When are we going to get a standalone Ruffalo Hulk movie?; 2) It was nice to see Rachel McAdams in a role that redeems her after that True Detective nonsense; 3) John Slattery kind of plays the same character in every role but he does it so damn well that I don't even mind; and 4) I thought that it would have been real easy to lose sight of the fact that this was a movie about journalists and not an expose itself, but that didn't happen.  I think that rather than just trying to skewer the Catholic Church, they made a great story about what real journalists are, and about how awful it is when bad people prey on the faithful.  Top notch all around.  I really loved it.
Best movie of the year, by far! The entire cast is phenomenal, led by an incredible Michael Keaton.
Please go and watch it if you can.  Awesome movie with stellar cast and acting from everyone, great script, and just a great movie all around.
Even in an age of insta-news, there is still a need for journalism.  Investigative reporting requires both time and knocking on doors.  Both qualities are fully on display throughout the film.  In the Catholic Church child abuse scandals, there were no villains--only perpetrators, those who kept quiet, and those doing their jobs the best they could.  Thankfully, thd Spotlight also were able to masterfully do theirs to expose it all.
This is going to win Best Picture at the Academy Awards.  The acting ensemble was incredible
True stories always make the best movies
What an excellent movie!!!  The story kept my interest the entire time, even though we know most bits and pieces of it. Great acting and great story telling....a highlight of the year!!â~â~â~â~â~
Simply Shockingly Amazing!!! Two thumbs way up!!!
Phenomenal performances in a spectacularly simple film. Tense and fascinating storytelling of one of the most disgusting and disturbing events of the last 50+ years. It belongs on the same shelf with "All The Presidents Men"... It's that good. Brilliant work from top to bottom.
intense and powerful. sad. the journalists did a hard job, but are very honorable. Dubuque is on the list for cases found. abuse by priests changed a lot of lives.
"Spotlight" is a spellbinding drama that is one of 2015's best movies. It's a movie that is consistently fascinating and very moving. The performances are all very impressive, most notably Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton. Don't get me wrong though, everyone is fantastic in this movie and there isn't a weak link in sight. The dialogue feels natural and realistic and everything feels like a real conversation. You are always on the edge of your seat to see where this investigation is heading and are shocked the whole way through. It's a movie that displays the power of the news and opens your eyes to something you probably didn't know much about. It's a movie that makes you think, affects you emotionally, and ultimately leaves you speechless.
A riveting re-telling of a despicable story. Keaton and Ruffalo were awesome.
Superb job from everyone involved ! Makes you sick to know that this is based on actual cases but the film makers did an awesome job keeping you engaged
best picture and director and original writting and supporting actor mark ruffalo
12/11/15 Consideration

As a Catholic this certainly did not tread new ground for me since this scandal was well known and reported by 2010 or so but this movie was compelling because of how the early story was researched and broken. Great actors and edge of your seat stuff even knowing the outcome ahead of time. Loved this one.
One of the best movies of the year.
An excellent film about a really tough hard topic to talk about, which is handled in a pretty good way, without making a huge deal about it, but at the same time paying respect to the involved subjects, great ensemble cast piece, great sharp script, great score.
Great casting & interesting film!
Great writing and acting. A powerful true story of justice.
Script problems. We never got to know the reporters in any depth. They were generic journalists. Amy Adams was totally wasted as an actress. Subject matter was riveting, however.
Outstanding writing, directing, and acting! Best film of the year!
From one of my favorite production companies Participant Media. Boston in recent years seems to be taking New York's spot as THE cinematic city in which to uncover humanity's underbelly. Spotlight may not lionize the reporters, but they are admirable people doing honorable work, polar opposites of the reporters in the old play and movies The Front Page playing fast and loose with the facts of a case. Billed as an ensemble piece, there are uniformly solid performances from each member of the cast, however Mark Ruffalo, as Mike Rezendes, delves a bit deeper into his character, perhaps has the greatest share of screen time, and delivers the biggest emotional punch. A true story powerfully told!
Spotlight is a news drama film directed and co-written by Tom McCarthy and it stars Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, and Liev Schreiber in a true story about a team that works for The Boston Globe called Spotlight, and they were investigating about child sex abuse from multiple Catholic Priests and make a story out of what's going on. I've heard tons and tons of good things about this, even calling it one of the best films of 2015. I still kept it on an open mind though, but was still excited to see it no matter what. I've also never heard of this story before, so I also want to keep that open for it too, and after watching it, people were right as Spotlight is one of the best films that I've seen in 2015. The cast are excellent in it and definitely act like news investigators by keeping their cool and patient while still caring about the story that they want to dig deep on, even if it's their job to do. It has a great story, and it takes advantage on the details of it that really doesn't feel like it's Hollywoodized. Even if there were some details that were in the story but not in the movie, I'm still impressed about how it still looks and feels like I'm watching an original film. The writing by Tom McCarthy and Josh Singer is so well-written and felt like real dialogue to me, and the characters are very three-dimensional. I did like how it was addressed that doing a news on the Catholic Church is very difficult as they would probably find out about it and they are pretty much everywhere. I wasn't as mad as I thought was going to be with the twists as it was because I watched a documentary about a child molester priest, but I was still as surprised at it as the characters in the movie were also when they found out about it. What they did at the ending is very respectful and does need to be more well known. Spotlight is a fantastic film that is probably the biggest step up that I've seen from critics dreading his previously film The Cobbler, to loving Spotlight.
The best made film of the year. Great script. Great directing. Great performances. Keaton and Ruffalo particularly stand out. Great film.
Very well done. It's quality film-making through and through. A tough subject to present on film, and even attempting it is admirable. This film deserves every bit of acclaim it receives.
I hate them all. Crimes against children are especially ugly. Crimes due to an abundance of power  are especially reprehensible. Crimes in the guise of religious power over children should certainly lead all related to the crimes to very sad, tragic demises.
Compelling, not preachy, only thing holding it back is that I would have loved to have seen more of the fallout. Great characters, who are played like real people. Mark Ruffalo is amazing in this movie. My guess is this is probably going to win best picture
The type of movie that leaves you thinking even hours after you leave the theatre
Excellent film, and arguably the best of the year.  Some really great performances.
Incredibly heartbreaking. We think we live in a time where injustices like this are few & far between but we are far from it. We should all strive to be like these heroic people who risk everything to fight for justice.
As a survivor I identify with the pain and anguish of the victims portrayed in the film.  I honor the bravery and courage of survivors who stepped forward and told their story.  I aIso honor the courage of the reporters who told their story and the story of the coverup.  The cover up happened everywhere, in every diocese, not just Boston.
Powerful and important.   Many will attempt to make this story about God and how anyone who believes in Him cannot be trusted.   They will try to use a story such as this to manipulate their own disbelief.   So,  why do I say this is important? 
Religion can at times be more distant from the truth of Christ than any nonbeliever agenda.   Religion,  at times,  destroys lives.   When an unspeakable evil becomes reality and is backed up by the belief that God is a part of this,  a destruction embarks on the involved and leaks out from every single part of their life.   The faith is completely destroyed because of the corrupt nature of the religion. 
This is what is so confusing about the church and why so many are so quick to dismiss it.   
A lesson should be learned from this horrific undertaking that is extremely important; does the church you attend represent Christ?   If not,  what good is it?   Why are there so many denominations for the faith?   Why does all of this have to be so mysterious?   Don't allow the evil within a system that uses God as a front to steal the truth about us.   This is not representative of Christ,  this is not what a relationship with Christ looks like.   
Wonderful movie with very strong and important points,  did you get the reality of it? 
4 out of 5 stars.
It feels like it's been a while since I've seen an intelligent movie. One that made me want to do something. One of the best lines was from the special features, talking about how news has become more entertainment based and good journalism and journalists are becoming less and less. This movie is certainly a motivation to get off you YouTube top ten lists and figure out what's really going on around us.
One of the films about journalism sense all the president's men.
Spotlight is the most consistently solid film I've seen in a long, long time. Every other film I've seen this year has had at least one part that I didn't like, one scene where I wasn't convinced, one performance that bothered me. But Spotlight has none of these things. It is constantly engaging, smart but not so much that it makes the audience feel dumb. It has a perfect balance of emotion and procedure, shining a light on the Spotlight team itself as well as letting the audience feel for those affected by the molestation they are investigating. It is an ensemble piece, and boy does everyone shine - Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo both give Oscar-worthy performances, but every single person on screen rises to the occasion and gives noteworthy and admirable performances. Thomas McCarthy directs the hell out of the film, too. Every stylistic choice resonates, and he is amazing at finding the human in every character, from giving them personal ticks to representing their motives without directly stating them to a potentially overwhelmed audience. The editing is fantastic, the score understated but perfect in tone, the cinematography non intrusive but effective. Spotlight may not be the most emotionally resonating film of the year (though it does invoke a lot of great emotional response), but it is the most expertly made, directed, and presented film in years.
Phenomenal. A must-see look into one of the most confrontational stories of the century.
Excellent movie,  incredible cast. Definitely worth it!
A film that demands to be seen

Spotlight is the staggering and insightful story about the investigation behind Catholic priest child abuse. It is an absolutely horrifying look into the darkest secrets of the Catholic Church that will make parishioners rethink their position on whether they could trust in what they're doing. The fact that they may have known or been to places where these people have took charge is unsettling. 

This film is absolutely fantastic. It hits all the right notes and is clearly going to be a frontrunner in the Oscar race this season. Everyone in the cast is on their A-game, and the script and direction makes up a powerful and fascinating story. There is so much this film had to address and it does it so in a very compelling fashion.

On the other hand this film does not deal with the aftermath of the situation. It may have been nice to learn how the Church dealt with this after the word went out to the world. Some supporting characters may have been clarified also, with more screen time they may have been more than plot devices.

Overall this is one of the best films of the year. Keaton, Ruffalo, McAdams, and the rest of the cast make up one of the best ensembles to be onscreen for the year as well. McCarthy does a great job telling the story and does his best to not make it feel overly dramatized, which films with sensitive subjects do sometimes. Spotlight is a film that needs to be seen.

Rating: 8.5 (A)
Spotlight may be a bit to restrained to really deliver the full effect its going for it remains a very timely and scary piece of cinema. 
Grade: B+
An emotional, compelling, brilliant newspaper film. This is probably the best Investigative journalism movie I've ever seen, and yes, I have seen 'All The President's Men.' This is a 'must watch' for the modern generation.
An important, emotionally gripping film that must be seen by EVERYONE!
McCarthy has full control of the groundbreaking story that changed the world. Excellence from the entire cast and a smart, fast paced script keeps us on the edge.
Powerful and humbling, more at http://wecosigners.com/spotlight/
Makes you sick to your stomach, but in an enthralling way. Oscar-worthy performances from all the main cast.
Treating its true events with detail and respect and never idolizing its heroes, all backed by genuine performances and a phenomenal script, Spotlight is a heavy but incredibly important masterpiece
Marty Baron: Sometimes it's easy to forget that we spend most of our time stumbling around the dark. Suddenly, a light gets turned on and there's a fair share of blame to go around. I can't speak to what happened before I arrived, but all of you have done some very good reporting here. Reporting that I believe is going to have an immediate and considerable impact on our readers. For me, this kind of story is why we do this.

Spotlight es una película de Tom Mccarthy acerca de la investigacion que llevo a cabo el Boston Globe acerca de los abusos de los curas a niños en la iglesia católica en Boston, pero que termino siendo uno de los escándalos de abuso mas pandemicos de la historia.

Spotlight es un equipo de periodismo, que se tomaban años en la investigación de sus reportajes, y así no hubiese manera de ignorar la evidencia. Este tipo de periodismo es escaso hoy en día, y esta película remarca la importancia de este tipo de equipos, ya que con el poder de la escritura lograron poner en evidencia a una institución tan poderosa como la iglesia católica y la obligaron a tomar cartas en el asunto.

Lo mas enervante de toda esta situación es que hasta el Vaticano estaba al tanto que estos abusos ocurrían y ayudaron a encubrirlos, y así miles de personas fueron cómplices de que esta situación sucediera tanto tiempo sin consecuencias. En cuanto a la película, la dirección es impecable. Muestra el detrás de escenas de la investigación de manera real e implacable. Se enfocan en lo que es el proceso de escribir la historia y todos los contratiempos con los cuales se encontraron, y no tratan de agregarle acción para hacerlo mas interesante, dejan que el guion y la trama hablen por si solos. Las actuaciones de todo el elenco son solidas y no hay nadie que se destaque sobre los demás, sino que todos los actores se comprometieron a sus papeles y dio excelentes resultados. De las mejores películas del año.
Gripping. Shocking. Wonderful cast. Story was very strong and was great to see what would happen next.
Good? Yes. Great? Yep! Best picture? No.
As a reenactment the film is good, but as a motion picture there is much to be desired. I don't want it to be over the top, but more than one scene of emotion would help. B
Spotlight

Based on the true story of how the Spotlight journalists working for the Boston Globe uncovered the scandalous child molestation cover-up by the local Catholic Archdiocese.

A star-studded cast drives this hard hitting drama about a very difficult subject where the corruption of keeping the Catholic Church's horrible secret in the dark branches out much farther than the religion itself. 

Grade:  A 

Big Al says see Spotlight in the theatre.
I watched this movie before I began my "Oscar Watch". What I do (because my opinion matters) lol. I watch all the movies to see if I agree with the nominations and winners. This year along with that there was some controversey about a snub toward Black movies and actor. Creed, Straight Out of Compton, Concussion, Chiraq and Beasts of No Nation with actors and actresses in those movies as well being snubbed. I was going to watch those movies anyway (except Chiraq I am still on the fence about watching that). I had already watched SOC. I havent watched Concussion, but I doubt seeing it would change my opinion..laughing at myself cuz people really care what I think..
   Okay this was a great a movie. I loved it. Oscar well deserved. Subject matter..great. None of the movies that were called snubbed came close to the level this movie was on. Good choice Oscar! 
 Adding Mark freaking Ruffalos Oscar nod..Deserved! I love him! Rachel Mcadams..mmm since Im like..what she do in the movie??? I am going to go with..undeserved!
Paced well and truly invigorating. Spotlight's cast does wonders in this mystery-drama and proves why this won best picture. The pacing of the film was flawless and the dialogue was top notch. Really gives you a lot to think about when the credits start rolling. Outstanding film!
'Spotlight' is harrowing, tightly directed, and sharply written, but what makes it truly exceptional is the cast. This is a collection of powerhouse performances in which every actor brings their best to the table. Mark Ruffalo and Stanley Tucci are spellbinding.
Spotlight is a movie for people who love dialogue driven scripts and phenomenal acting. I went into Spotlight having no previous knowledge of the source material or its background, so I was excited to learn more of the story and get angry at myself for not knowing about the story earlier. If I could describe Spotlight in one word, it'd definitely be enthralling. I was completely engaged in the story and all the research that was being done throughout the film. It's hard to make a movie like this not boring because you have to cast the right people, write an interesting enough script while staying faithful to source material, and keep an even pace. Spotlight did all of those things and made it exciting. There was never a dull moment throughout the runtime and that's mainly due to the exceptionally strong ensemble of actors. Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, as well as the remaining cast were all fantastic and Oscar worthy as well! They delivered their smart, sometimes witty dialogue in such a demanding and sleek manner that it was impossible to not be interested in what they were addressing. The dialogue as a whole was really well written, like I said it's hard to make a movie like this as interesting as it was. The story is also really well crafted with its writing too. The Boston Globe finding unveiled information about multiple child molestation cases by catholic priests sounds interesting enough, but when you watch the cast uncover the new, shocking information it's just so fun to watch. My one small issue I have with this film is that it was hard to keep up with all the names that are stated. I remember all the main peoples' names but there were a few characters that popped up for a scene or two, but their names are still being used. It jittered me up for a few minutes but that's really my only complaint. The story never managed to get dull, in fact, it gets really intense as it progresses. There's a scene with Mark Ruffalo where he's trying to get these documents for their news article that's extremely intense and even stressful to watch. The timeline of this movie is really spot on too, there's scenes of winter time, spring, and even 9/11 to remind you what year this went down. That was a real clever touch. In the very end, I couldn't tell if I should be angry or happy. The way the film wrapped up was well done, but something happens during the credits that was jaw dropping. Spotlight is an experience to BE experienced. It has one of the best casting ensembles I've ever seen, fantastic story telling, a really interesting story TO tell, and it actually made me feel smarter after watching. A-
Strong performances drive a strong story in a film that reminds me, in tone, of All The President's Men. This also reminds me of why the world needs newspapers. There is no other media outlet that has ever committed the time, money or manpower that print does to serving the community.
A story that needed to be told. A must watch. Hats off to the Spotlight team that uncovered the travesty, but nothing Oscar worthy from the cast.